A look back at Boston's first coronavirus superspreader event
Share
{copyShortcut} to copy Link copied!
Updated: 6:26 PM EST Feb 24, 2021
Anchor/Medical Reporter
In late February of 2020, hundreds of professionals gathered in Boston for an international biotechnology conference. We've since learned that Biogen meeting was one of the first coronavirus superspreader events. At the time, the country was business as usual, the world largely unaware of the pandemic to come."We didn't know that superspreading events could happen with COVID," said Dr. Paul Biddinger, chief of the division of emergency preparedness at Massachusetts General Hospital and chair of Gov. Charlie Baker's COVID-19 Vaccine Advisory Group.At the time of the conference, MGH had only seen a handful of COVID-19 patients."We got the call that there were a few individuals who'd been at this conference, who'd been around someone with COVID. It was really in the next two days after that, when multiple individuals began to have symptoms, that it became pretty clear that probably there was transmission at this conference," Biddinger said. In an analysis published in the journal, Science, the coronavirus strains at that conference would infect as many as 300,000 Americans, spread to 29 states and be detected in countries around the globe.Biddinger said that's because there were two key things we didn't know then."We didn't know about the possibility of pre-symptomatic or asymptomatic transmission. We also didn't know how much testing capability we would need and how soon we would need it."He said say that's a lesson we need to pay attention to. Investment in public health, in testing and contact tracing, must be a priority as we look to the future. "We need to continue to invest in our preparedness for biothreats. The threats themselves are not going to go away and we need a really, really robust response at the first signal something is changing," Biddinger said.He thinks by fall we could feel some sense of normalcy, if vaccination rates are high to keep virus rates low and protect those who are most vulnerable."If the medical consequences of illness go away or are substantially less, meaning very few people are at significant risk of dying and being admitted to the intensive care unit, then I do think we can actually start getting back closer to normal."Questions remain about the role the virus variants will play in transmission. Biddinger said there is encouraging data about the effectiveness of the vaccines against some of them and in the meantime, people should stick with the basic precautions that have been shown to work.
In late February of 2020, hundreds of professionals gathered in Boston for an international biotechnology conference. We've since learned that Biogen meeting was one of the first coronavirus superspreader events.
At the time, the country was business as usual, the world largely unaware of the pandemic to come.
Advertisement
"We didn't know that superspreading events could happen with COVID," said Dr. Paul Biddinger, chief of the division of emergency preparedness at Massachusetts General Hospital and chair of Gov. Charlie Baker's COVID-19 Vaccine Advisory Group.
At the time of the conference, MGH had only seen a handful of COVID-19 patients.
"We got the call that there were a few individuals who'd been at this conference, who'd been around someone with COVID. It was really in the next two days after that, when multiple individuals began to have symptoms, that it became pretty clear that probably there was transmission at this conference," Biddinger said.
In an analysis published in the journal, Science, the coronavirus strains at that conference would infect as many as 300,000 Americans, spread to 29 states and be detected in countries around the globe.
Biddinger said that's because there were two key things we didn't know then.
"We didn't know about the possibility of pre-symptomatic or asymptomatic transmission. We also didn't know how much testing capability we would need and how soon we would need it."
He said say that's a lesson we need to pay attention to. Investment in public health, in testing and contact tracing, must be a priority as we look to the future.
"We need to continue to invest in our preparedness for biothreats. The threats themselves are not going to go away and we need a really, really robust response at the first signal something is changing," Biddinger said.
He thinks by fall we could feel some sense of normalcy, if vaccination rates are high to keep virus rates low and protect those who are most vulnerable.
"If the medical consequences of illness go away or are substantially less, meaning very few people are at significant risk of dying and being admitted to the intensive care unit, then I do think we can actually start getting back closer to normal."
Questions remain about the role the virus variants will play in transmission. Biddinger said there is encouraging data about the effectiveness of the vaccines against some of them and in the meantime, people should stick with the basic precautions that have been shown to work.
Loading more articles...
