Two elderly patients given wrong dose of coronavirus vaccine
Rebecca GredleyAAP
Wed, 24 February 2021 7:04AM
Comments
Two elderly Queenslanders given overdose of Pfizer vaccine
The West Australian
Two elderly Queenslanders given overdose of Pfizer vaccine
Share to Facebook
Email Us
Copy the Link
A Queensland nurse's quick action has prevented more aged care residents from receiving overdoses of the Pfizer coronavirus vaccine.
Two elderly residents were on Tuesday given four times the intended dose by a doctor who was contracted to administer the jabs as part of the federal government's portion of the vaccine rollout.
He is facing investigation over whether he completed mandatory training and has been stood down from the vaccine rollout.
The 88-year-old man was admitted to hospital for observation and is currently showing no signs of adverse reaction.
The 94-year-old woman is being monitored in her aged care home.
Camera Icon
Queensland Premier Annastacia Palaszczuk said the next 72 hours would be crucial. Credit: GLENN HUNT/AAPIMAGE
Queensland Premier Annastacia Palaszczuk says the next 72 hours are crucial for the elderly pair.
She will write to Prime Minister Scott Morrison asking for a national cabinet meeting to occur as soon as possible.
"I want to know what training is being provided to the people the federal government is employing to administer the vaccines in our aged care facilities to give additional confidence," Ms Palaszczuk told state parliament on Wednesday.
"I'll be writing to the prime minister, (to say) that the federal government needs to give us regular updates about who they are vaccinating, and the number of people that are vaccinating, just as we give the public an update about how many people we are vaccinating."
Healthcare workers are meant to complete online training modules before being able to administer the coronavirus vaccines, which come in multi-dose vials.
Camera Icon
Minister for Health Greg Hunt could not say if the doctor had completed the training. Credit: MICK TSIKAS/AAPIMAGE
Health Minister Greg Hunt could not say if the doctor had completed the training.
"We will leave that to the investigation as to whether or not they either did not understand or did not complete (the training) - but it was a very serious breach in terms of following the protocol," he told reporters in Canberra.
"There has to be proof of participation and completion."
Deputy Chief Medical Officer Michael Kidd is looking into what happened and will file a report.
The home's operator will be reporting the GP - hired by Healthcare Australia - to the national regulator, describing the incident as "extremely concerning".
Chief Medical Officer Paul Kelly said higher doses had also been given to residents at aged care facilities in Germany and the United Kingdom, leading to minimal side effects.
"That gives us hope," Professor Kelly said.
Higher doses of the vaccines had also been given to people in early clinical trials, he said.
Thousands of Pfizer vaccine doses have been delivered across Australia in the first phase of the vaccination program, which targets frontline aged and disability workers and residents.
Doses of the AstraZeneca vaccine - which most Australians will receive - are on track to arrive from overseas early next month, in addition to vials being manufactured in Victoria.
The federal Department of Health is waiting to receive state and territory figures on the number of vaccines that have been administered so far.
