Blogs
A new study from the Henry Ford Health System finds that hydroxychloroquine "significantly" decreased the death rate of patients with coronavirus. It also found that patients did not suffer heart-related side effects from the drug. "The data here is clear that there was a benefit to using the drug as a treatment for sick, hospitalized patients,” said Steven Kalkanis, CEO of the Henry Ford Medical Group.
This is fantastic news. Fortunately, the Trump Administration secured a massive supply of hydroxychloroquine for the national stockpile months ago. Yet this is the same drug that the media and the Biden campaign spent weeks trying to discredit and spread fear and doubt around because President Trump dared to mention it as a potential treatment for coronavirus.
First, the media tried to ludicrously blame President Trump for the death of a man who ingested fish tank cleaner , falsely tying the incident to hydroxychloroquine. The same media then gleefully amplified a doctored hydroxychloroquine study (which was later retracted) to suggest that Americans listening to President Trump " may die ." Dr. Fauci's advice that he would "of course" prescribe hydroxychloroquine , and the numerous testimonies from patients who credited the drug with saving their lives, went all but ignored. Even Joe Biden himself dismissed the drug, saying "no serious medical personnel" would suggest its use.
The media and the Democrats fear-mongering around hydroxychloroquine became so bad that doctors told NPR they were having a difficult time even recruiting patients to enlist in clinical trials to study it . “The fact that President Trump is touting this drug means some people are now invested in the idea that hydroxychloroquine won't work," one said. “We're talking about a treatment. Who would be rooting for us not to find the therapy, for God's sakes?” asked another.
The new study from the Henry Ford Health System should be a clear message to the media and the Democrats: stop the bizarre attempts to discredit hydroxychloroquine to satisfy your own anti-Trump agenda. It may be costing lives.
