The Hill 2/24/2021 Dominick Mastrangelo
© Getty Images WHO: Coronavirus deaths down 20 percent worldwide last week
The number of deaths resulting from the coronavirus dropped 20 percent worldwide last week, compared to the previous week, according to the World Health Organization (WHO).
The total number of new cases reported also fell globally for the sixth consecutive week, the WHO said, with 2.4 million new cases last week. That figure represents an 11 percent decline from the week before.
Worldwide coronavirus deaths have also fallen each of the last three weeks, according to figures analyzed by the global health alliance, with 66,000 new deaths reported last week.
The WHO estimates 110.7 million cases and over 2.4 million deaths have been reported around the world since the start of the pandemic.
The United States earlier this week passed the grim milestone of 500,000 lives lost to the pandemic. President Biden, Vice President Harris and congressional leaders all held moments of silence to remember those victims.
"But as we acknowledge the scale of this mass death in America, we remember each person and the life they lived. They're people we knew. They're people we feel like we knew," Biden said during a speech on Monday. "Read the obituaries and remembrances. The son who called his mom every night just to check in. The father's daughter who lit up his world. The best friend who was always there. The nurse - the nurse and nurses - but the nurse who made her patients want to live."
Most developed nations have begun a mass government vaccination campaign, with an estimated 64 million doses having been administered in the U.S. since the middle of December.
Biden has pledged that every American who wants a vaccine should have access to one by the middle of the summer and has pleaded with citizens to continue following strict public health measures even after inoculation in order to allow the pandemic to run its course.
"But even after you're vaccinated, social distancing and wearing masks are going to be essential, and we'll need to continue communicating about that," White House press secretary Jen Psaki said earlier this month.
