How do I properly wear a cloth face covering?
Clean your hands prior to fitting the cloth face covering.
Make sure to keep the cloth face covering tightly fitted to your face and over the nose.
Change to a clean cloth face covering when it is wet or moist or when you take it off in order to eat etc.
Clean your hands after you have removed or touched the cloth face covering.
Keep the used cloth face covering in a closed plastic bag until you have an opportunity to wash it.
Wash the cloth face covering at 60 degrees Celsius between each time you use it.
See an illustration for correct use of a cloth face covering here (PDF, fhi.no).
Correct hygiene when using a face mask
Face masks are uncomfortable to wear. People who wear them over time will typically touch their face as well as the face mask more frequently. Avoid touching the front of your face mask and clean your hands if you do touch it. Also avoid touching the front of your face mask and then touch your eyes or face. Wash your hands after you have removed or touched the face mask.
Where can I get hold of the correct face masks?
You can buy medical face masks type I and several types of cloth face coverings at most pharmacies.
Can face masks expire and when should I change the face mask?
Face masks and cloth face coverings have a limited effect and durability and will reach an expiration date. Face masks should be changed regularly, for example when the mask is wet, moist or dirty or when you take it off in order to eat.
Medical face masks are disposable and intended for single use only. Once you have removed the face mask you should not put it back on. It should be disposed of in a bin after use.
Cloth face coverings should not be reworn until they have been washed. They can be washed with other laundry at 60°C or higher.
What are the requirements for home-made face masks?
The Norwegian authorities recommend to follow the guidelines from Standards Norway (standard.no) when making your own face mask /cloth face covering.
This video from the World Health Organization (WHO) can serve as inspiration for making your own mask. The video is intended as a practical demonstration only, as the WHO requirements differ somewhat from those of Standards Norway. The requirements presented by Standards Norway are in line with recommendations from the Norwegian authorities.
Can I eat or drink while wearing a face mask? What if I place it under my chin or leave it hanging by one ear?
No. If you are going to eat or drink you will need to remove the face mask, wash your hands and then fit another face mask or clean cloth face covering.
Do all face masks offer equal protection?
No. Research so far indicates that the efficiency of different types of face masks when it comes to degree of filtering and protection differs. The efficiency will vary with different types of material, production conditions and how well the mask is shaped and fitted. It is important to keep good hand hygiene prior to putting on a face mask, after removing it as well as when you have touched the face mask.
Can I have guests visiting or go to the store while I am ill with symptoms of a respiratory infection if I wear a face mask?
No, if you are ill with symptoms of a respiratory infection you should stay at home. You should not entertain guests and avoid close contact with others. If you have no other option, you can go grocery shopping while taking extra care to maintain good hand hygiene, keep a distance to others, and wear a face mask.
If you are in isolation due to suspected or confirmed COVID-19, you should not go shopping, not even if you are wearing a face mask.
To what extent will a face mask offer protection relative to keeping a 1 metre distance to others?
The documentation on the effect of face masks for the protection against a respiratory infection is ambiguous and points to different conclusions. The overall assessment is that public use of face masks / cloth face coverings can reduce the risk of transmission by approximately 40%. The effect will vary with the quality of the face masks / cloth face coverings and whether the masks are worn correctly. The risk of infection when we keep a distance of at least one metre to others is reduced by approximately 80%. Hence the risk of transmission could increase if we wear a face mask instead of keeping a distance to others of at least one metre.
The use of face mask /cloth face covering cannot replace but be a supplement to the standard measures for infection control: Stay at home if you are ill, get tested if you show symptoms, keep a distance to others and maintain good hand-and cough hygiene.
Are there some adults who cannot wear a face mask?
For medical or other reasons some people might not be able to wear a face mask. Be tolerant about face mask use - both for those who do use them and those who cannot.
Will it be safe to travel by a crowded train or bus if most of the passengers are wearing a face mask?
The effect of using a face mask cannot replace the effect of keeping a distance of at least one metre. Social distancing has a bigger impact on infection control than wearing a face mask. It is important that we all take part in the shared responsibility to reduce the number of passengers by 50% compared to the normal situation. This will help make the journey as safe as possible both for our fellow passengers and for the employees.
Employers are encouraged to contribute. Everyone is encouraged to go to work and school by foot or by bicycle, and to adjust our working hours and work from home if possible.
Information about face masks in Norwegian sign language (NSL)
Information hotline
Monday-Friday from 08:00 to 15:30
Questions about corona? Call the information hotline. From abroad, call +47 21 93 78 40.
Norwegian Institute of Public Health (NIPH)
News, statistics, information and advice from the Norwegian Institute of Public Health
The Government
Important information from the Norwegian Government on measures regarding the corona outbreak, and advice to the population
