11:25 a.m.: Californians urged to celebrate Valentine's Day virtually
Health officials are urging Californians to protect their loved ones from the coronavirus by celebrating Valentine’s Day virtually this year.
The governor's office of emergency services tweeted a message Saturday, telling people to “have a heart, stay apart."
This Valentine’s Day, catch feelings, not COVID-19. Have a heart and stay apart. #EndthePandemic #COVID19 #ValentinesDay pic.twitter.com/BAOjTANCtT
— Cal OES (@Cal_OES) February 14, 2021
Meanwhile, San Francisco public health officials are taking a more direct approach. They updated a six-page tip sheet this week on how to have sex as safely as possible during the pandemic.
While stressing that people should avoid close contact — including sex — with anyone outside their household, the city’s public health department told the San Francisco Chronicle it was updating guidance it first issued last year “to reflect the latest science on COVID-19.”
—Associated Press
12:09 p.m.: Some fitness trainers got vaccine as 'health care workers'
Some fitness trainers in California were able to get vaccinated against COVID-19 after state health officials created a loophole that helped them qualify as health care workers.
KGO-TV reports that in January, the California Department of Public Health released updated guidelines on vaccination allocation that classified outdoor recreation as health care, the first tier eligible to get the vaccine along with people over 75.
Some fitness clubs jumped at the chance of getting their employees vaccinated. But last Friday, state health officials updated the rules and they no longer include outdoor recreation as health care.
—Associated Press
11:11 a.m.: 4-6 million added to California's vaccine eligibility list
California is expanding its list of people eligible for coronavirus vaccinations by another 4 million to 6 million people.
State Health Director Dr. Mark Ghaly said Friday that starting March 15 severely disabled people and those with health conditions that put them at high risk can get in line for shots. Among those included are people with certain cancer, heart, lung and kidney conditions, as well as pregnant women, those with Down syndrome, organ transplant recipients and the severely obese.
California has been plagued by vaccine shortages and Ghaly acknowledged  he's not sure how long it will take for the federal supply of shots to meet demand.
—Associated Press
3:41 p.m.: Sacramento County to begin vaccinating K-12 educators and childcare workers
Sacramento County Public Health and its health care partners will start vaccinating educators and child care providers on Feb. 16.
The undertaking is a collaborative effort between the Sacramento County Office of Education, the 13 local school districts, private school entities, the county’s public health department and health care providers. A press release from the county says vaccinations will ultimately depend on the availability of doses.
“Vaccinating our educators and childcare providers is an important step in the effort to fight the COVID-19 pandemic and help return our communities back to their normal lives,” Sacramento County Public Health Officer Dr. Olivia Kasirye said. “While the effort will be slow, every person that gets vaccinated is a step in the right direction.”
Who is eligible?
At this time, those employed in Sacramento County who meet at least one of the criteria below are eligible to schedule a vaccination appointment:
All staff in preschool, elementary, middle, and high schools
All formal and informal childcare workers, including daycare providers
Any other workers involved in child and/or student care, including school bus drivers, monitors, crosswalk guards, etc.
All staff in educational support services and administration
Because of a limited vaccine supply, colleges, universities, post-secondary education facilities, technical and trade schools will have to wait until a yet-to-be-announced future date.
Appointments will be required, and SCPH will provide appointment portals directly to the eligible groups to assist with appointment scheduling.
3:33 p.m.: Yolo County switches to the state's COVID-19 vaccine availability site
Yolo County is shifting away from its online COVID-19 vaccination interest form to the state's vaccination notification website, MyTurn .
MyTurn allows California residents to register for an email or text notification to let them know when they're eligible for a coronavirus shot. Eventually, the system will also allow eligible residents to book their vaccination appointments all in the same place. Currently, that feature is only available for people living near Los Angeles, San Diego or San Francisco.
Yolo County initially launched their own COVID-19 interest form on Jan. 19, before the MyTurn system was established. According to a county press release, previously registered Yolo County residents will need to register again on MyTurn to get any updates or reminders due to the differences in databases.
The county stresses that switching to MyTurn will not negatively impact a resident's ability to get the vaccine.
MyTurn is available in English and Spanish, with six more languages planned for mid-February. Californians without internet access and call 1-(833) 422-4255 to get help in English or Spanish and 254 additional languages through a third-party operator.
Yolo County is currently vaccinating healthcare workers in Phase 1A and those 65 and older in Phase 1B, Tier 1. Appointments can't be made on MyTurn yet, so eligible residents can contact their health care provider or register at a public county clinic online .
3:25 p.m.: Bill proposal would permanently allow restaurants to sell to-go cocktails
During the pandemic, the state department of Alcoholic Beverage Control temporarily allowed restaurants to sell boozy takeout drinks, and with a new proposal in the Legislature, that could become permanent.
The head of the California Restaurant Associated applauded the bill saying including cocktails with to-go meals has been helpful for many restaurant owners barely hanging on, especially as restaurants across the state have relied on to-go cocktails to bolster their sales, since indoor dining is still closed.
At least 33 other states have also introduced similar temporary rules allowing customers to take alcoholic drinks on the go. If passed, the new law would require customers to purchase food with their boozy beverages.
12:03 p.m.: Trinity County has one of the lowest COVID-19 vaccination rates in the state
The slow pace of COVID-19 vaccinations in California isn’t a problem only in big cities and counties — smaller counties are struggling to keep up with inoculations, too.
Trinity County has a population of just over 12,000, but is administering some of the fewest doses per 100,000 residents in the state. Out of the 58 counties in California, Trinity County ranks 55th in vaccination rates.
The county’s public health branch director Marcie Jo Cudziol said health officials administered about 550 doses at mass vaccination clinics last week.
“When they released the vaccine back in December, there wasn’t a lot of guidance on the infrastructure around getting it out, and so that was very challenging,” Cudziol said.
Prior to the latest inoculation push, they had only administered about 130 doses in total. Cudziol said the state provided access to six vaccinators this week to help the county’s inoculation effort. Those eligible include residents who are 65 or older and younger people with chronic health conditions.
10:29 a.m.: Natomas Unified School District plans to resume in-person learning
A Sacramento-area school district has announced a timeline to return to in-person learning for students in Transitional Kindergarten through 6th grade.
The Natomas Unified School District has reached out to parents, saying it plans to resume classes on Feb. 23. Superintendent Chris Evans says the decision was based on communication from the Sacramento County Public Health Department allowing these specific grades to return to in-person learning.
The department’s ruling was based on improving COVID-19 case rates in the area. Evans also said in the letter that educators might begin getting the vaccine as early as next week. While students may soon be moving back into classrooms, the in-person groups will be smaller — five to seven students on average per day.
A district poll showed 46% of TK through 6th grade parents want their kids back in class.
Thursday, February 11
3:24 p.m.: Pandemic fever got you down? Smash up stuff at LA’s rage room
Meditation and Pilates may be good and fine for some people, but after nearly a year in COVID-19 isolation, some people just want to grab a sledgehammer and smash everything in sight.
Thankfully for them, there are now two “rage rooms” in the Los Angeles suburb of Westlake Village where they can do just that. According to the Associated Press , the rooms are part of Smash RX LLC, opened by licensed marriage and family therapist Yashica Budde to give people a way to release stress.
Participants can destroy items like TVs, computers, cups, plates, even furniture — pretty much anything Budde can get her hands on to help keep them calm.
3:23 p.m.: UC Berkeley COVID-19 lockdown bans outdoor exercise
A recent surge in COVID-19 cases at the University of California, Berkeley, has prompted school officials to extend a lockdown on about 2,000 students living in residence halls and ban them from outdoor exercise.
According to the Associated Press, the university website says more than 400 people have tested positive for the virus since an outbreak started in mid-January. A weekly breakdown of the cases shows about 200 positive tests since the first week of February.
The lockdown put in place has been extended through at least Feb. 15. Among the strict new rules is a ban on outdoor exercise that goes beyond the state's own guidelines that encouraged getting outside to exercise.
3:22 p.m.: Nevada Gov. Steve Sisolak to provide COVID-19 update
Nevada Gov. Steve Sisolak is scheduled to provide an update on the trajectory of the coronavirus pandemic in the state on Thursday, according to the Associated Press.
The announcement comes one day before restrictions on businesses and gatherings are set to expire. While the spread of the virus has begun to slow down in the state, January was still the deadliest month since the start of the pandemic.
Sisolak tightened restrictions in late November. Restaurants, bars, gyms, places of worship and casinos have since had their capacity capped at 25%. He told residents the restrictions would be temporary, assuring them that adherence would slow the virus's spread, but later extended them twice.
8:42: a.m.: California death toll passes New York
California has edged past New York in the grim COVID-19 death toll statistic, according to the Associated Press.
Johns Hopkins University data reported Thursday shows California’s death toll has reached 45,496, surpassing New York’s toll of 45,312. The development comes as coronavirus trends are showing improvement in California.
According to data from the Center for Disease Control and Prevention ,California ranks 32nd in the highest death rate per capita, with 113 deaths for every 100,000 residents. New Jersey is the highest with 250 deaths per 100,000 people.
State Department of Public Health data shows the most recent seven-day positive test rate has fallen to 4.8%, and the daily number of new positive cases is under 8,400, down from the well over 53,000 in December.
However, California is grappling with vaccine shortages that are devastating efforts to mass inoculate the state’s nearly 40 million residents.
8:40 a.m.: How scientists track COVID-19 mutations and variants
AP Illustration/Peter Hamlin
Scientists around the world are tracking variants of the coronavirus by scanning virus samples taken from infected people.
According to the Associated Press, the process is called genome sequencing, and lets experts look for recurring changes in the virus's genetic code over time . Most mutations are meaningless, but scientists are looking for those that might make the virus more infectious or resistant to vaccines.
Countries vary in their genomic surveillance — for example, Britain sequences about 10% of samples from infected people, compared to less than 1% in the U.S. So far, scientists have sequenced nearly half a million genomes of the coronavirus and are primarily concerned about the three variants first identified in the U.K., South Africa and Brazil.
8:39 a.m.: Los Angeles shuts down vaccination sites due to lack of supply
The city of Los Angeles is temporarily closing five mass vaccination sites — including Dodger Stadium — because the city is running out of COVID-19 doses.
Mayor Eric Garcetti said the city will exhaust its supply of Moderna first doses by Thursday, forcing it to close vaccination sites on Friday and Saturday.
Garcetti says L.A. only received 16,000 new doses this week, just 3,000 more than it uses in a typical day. The announcement came amid complaints over a state vaccine distribution system that one Assemblyman on Wednesday termed “nothing short of chaotic.”
Wednesday, February 10
6:13 p.m.: California Labor Secretary Julie Su nominated for deputy U.S. secretary of labor
President Joe Biden has nominated California Labor Secretary Julie Su as the deputy U.S. secretary of labor, putting another Californian in a top administration job.
The announcement is expected to focus a brighter spotlight on California's ongoing unemployment fraud scandal. The state says it has paid out at least $11 billion in fraudulent benefits and that figure could top $30 billion. Su's office oversees EDD operations. EDD officials have also been criticized in two reports by the state auditor and there's a huge backlog of unpaid claims.
Su's nomination requires Senate confirmation. She would be tasked with helping lead a sprawling department that oversees laws regulating worker standards and pay, workplace safety, family and medical leave and more.
5:17 p.m.: South African COVID-19 variant detected in California
Two cases of the South African variant of the virus, believed to be more easily transmissible and more resistant to antibodies and vaccines, have been reported in California. One is in Alameda County, the other in Santa Clara County.
Gov. Gavin Newsom made the announcement while at a new mass vaccination site in Fresno. The South African variant is believed to be more easily transmissible and more resistant to antibodies, including those in the vaccines currently in use. It is not, however, believed to be more deadly.
Newsom also says cases and hospitalizations continue to decrease and ICU capacities continue to rise. The governor also noted the state has administered 5 million doses of the COVID-19 vaccine.
"On Friday of last week, we announced 225,000  vaccinations over a 24-hour reporting period. That represented the 4 million mark.  In less than a week, we've now reached 5 million," Newsom said. "It took us seven days to go from about 3 to 4 million."
The 5 millionth dose was given to an 85-year-old former farmworker in the Central Valley. That comes as advocates for farmworkers say that the group may be left behind in the state's vaccine rollout.
5:16 p.m.: Confusion over vaccination order causes thousands of appointments to be missed at Dodger Stadium
Thousands of COVID-19 vaccination appointment opportunities went unused at the Dodger Stadium mass inoculation site on Tuesday over vaccination order confusion, according to the Associated Press.
Many didn’t attend since it was unclear if they could receive the first round of shots there. Los Angeles County health officials announced last week that because of short vaccine supplies, people could only receive their second shots at county-run inoculation sites starting Feb. 9.
Dodger Stadium is among vaccination sites operated by the city of Los Angeles, which is not limiting appointments to second shots only. About 4,800 doses intended for use on Tuesday are now available Wednesday.
5:10 p.m.: US government looking into massive N94 mask counterfeit scam
Federal authorities are investigating a massive counterfeit N95 mask operation in which fake 3M masks were sold in at least five states to hospitals, medical facilities and government agencies.
According to the Associated Press , the foreign-made knockoffs are becoming increasingly difficult to spot and could put health care workers at grave risk for infection. A federal official says these masks are giving first responders” a false sense of security.”
Nearly a year into the pandemic, fraud still remains a significant problem as scammers seek to exploit hospitals and desperate, weary Americans. These schemes deliver phony products, unlike fraud earlier in the pandemic that focused more on fleecing customers.
Officials could not name the states or the company involved in the fraud because of an active investigation.
10:52 a.m.: California looks into whistleblower allegation over COVID-19 testing lab
The California Department of Public Health is investigating whistleblower allegations of mismanagement and incompetence — including reports of workers sleeping on the job — at the state’s new billion-dollar COVID-19 testing laboratory.
According to the Associated Press , internal documents from the PerkinElmer-run lab detailed alleged issues like contamination causing inconclusive tests, swapped samples and inaccurate results sent to patients.
CBS13 TV in Sacramento obtained the records . They interviewed current and former employees who claim to have found COVID-19 test swaps found in restaurants. California’s health department director Tomas Aragon said the state is taking the allegations seriously.
The state contracted PerkinElmer to process up to 150,000 coronavirus tests a day by March at the Santa Clarita-based lab. However, records show that the facility is currently working through less than 20,000 tests a day while being paid a contracted rate of 100,000 tests per day.
10:51 a.m.: A third of US adults skeptical about COVID-19 vaccination
About 1 in 3 American adults say they definitely or probably won’t get the COVID-19 vaccine.
That’s according to a recent poll from the Associated Press-NORC Center for Public Affairs Research. Experts say this is discouraging news if the U.S. hopes to achieve herd immunity and vanquish the outbreak.
The poll found that while 67% of Americans plan to get vaccinated or have already done so, 15% are certain they won’t, and 17% said probably not. Many expressed doubts over the vaccine's safety and effectiveness, even though few if any, serious side effects have turned up more than a month and a half into the vaccination drive.
10:50 a.m.: WHO expert group recommends use of AstraZeneca vaccine
Independent experts advising the World Health Organization have recommended the use of AstraZeneca's vaccine to fight COVID-19, according to the Associated Press.
The group also stressed the vaccine even in countries where especially contagious variants cropped up. Amid the growing doubts about the vaccine's effectiveness against the potent coronavirus variant from South Africa, the new advice is for healthcare officials worldwide.
However, this isn't a green light for the U.N. and its partners to ship the vaccine. That approval could come after a separate WHO group meets on Friday and Monday to assess whether an emergency-use listing for the AstraZeneca vaccine is warranted.
Tuesday, February 9
6:08 p.m.: California leaders facing pressure to loosen restrictions on youth sports
Parents and coaches are ramping up pressure on California leaders to loosen restrictions on youth sports, citing concerns over physical and mental health. Some parents also worry their teenagers could be losing out on scholarship opportunities.
Most team sports have been suspended since the onset of the pandemic. At least one unsanctioned basketball tournament in Rocklin [near Sacramento] late last year led to more than 90 confirmed coronavirus cases.
Gov. Gavin Newsom says it’s something his office has been reevaluating.
"We’ve been negotiating the details of that," Newsom said Tuesday. "Real progress is being made."
But the governor says youth sports is part of a larger conversation on reopening schools. He plans to release a deal with state lawmakers on schools later this week.
6:00 p.m.: Butte County officials say more Covid testing needed to assess spread of virus
Butte County Public Health Officials say testing too few residents could prevent the state from loosening the county's COVID-19 restrictions.
Butte County is currently in the purple, or most restrictive tier, under the state’s reopening system. This means many non-essential businesses are barred from operating indoors.
One of the metrics the state looks to when determining restrictions is the test positivity rate, or the percentage of positive COVID-19 tests in the county. Butte County Health Officials say if too few residents are tested, it will be difficult for the state to accurately assess how widespread the virus is in the community.
Officials say more testing is likely to lower the percentage of positive results and that testing too few residents could hinder the ability to loosen restrictions.
1:44 p.m.: Newsom says school reopening discussion continues, despite vaccines supply issues
Gov. Gavin Newsom once again hinted at a deal this week with California lawmakers on a $6.6 billion plan to reopen schools in the state , despite concerns from educators about access to vaccines.
Newsom said Tuesday that he supports a plan to get students, especially kindergarten to second grade, back into in-person classrooms before the end of the school year.
"I am of the firm belief we can safely get back our children — our youngest children — get them back safely to school in small cohorts," he said Tuesday at the opening of a vaccination center at Levi's Stadium in Santa Clara. "We can get this done and we must get it done. If we care about diversity and we care about the values we preach, we have to get our youngest kids back into instruction and back into an environment where their social and emotional needs are  being met."
Unions representing teachers and other school employees have put out their open plan, calling for the state to offer vaccines to all school employees before they return to work.
But Newsom said that would be unlikely with the state's limited supply of vaccines. On Tuesday, he said the federal government will be providing around a million doses to California again this week, though only 594,000 earmarked for first doses.
"When you're receiving less than 600,000 first doses a week, and you start to do the math, if that's the prerequisite, then we need to be honest with people, and let them know — parents,  millions of us, myself included — that it is very unlikely we'll be able to accomplish that very idealistic goal before the end of the school year, unless we took them away from the vast majority of others, seniors and our most medically vulnerable," Newsom said.
New COVID-19 cases and hospitalizations continue to drop throughout the state, though more than 500 Californians a day are still dying from the disease.
1:37 p.m.: Nevada passes spending plan for 2020 federal coronavirus relief money
Nevada lawmakers unanimously passed spending plans for $633 million-worth of federal coronavirus relief funding passed by the former President Trump administration in December.
According to the Associated Press, the appropriations approved this week pertained to already-passed federal funding and will not draw from the general fund that state lawmakers oversee and use to finance state services and projects.
Lawmakers approved $125 million for Nevada’s rental assistance program, $50 million for a relief fund for small businesses, and $477 million for K-12 schools. The provisions apply to the budget year ending in June 2021 and are separate from the Legislature’s planning process for the upcoming two years.
California issued new rules for religious gatherings over the weekend following a Supreme Court ruling that struck down a ban on indoor worship services .
Previously churches were required to conduct religious services outside if their county was still in the highest two risk levels, purple and red, in the state’s color-coded tier reopening system. Most areas have been under these restrictions for weeks after the end of the state's regional stay-at-home order.
While services are allowed back indoors at 25% capacity, singing and chanting are still banned. Many religious organizations cheered the new guidelines. Several Catholic leaders across the state said they would resume services like Mass under limited capacity.
Despite this, the ban on signing continues to be a sticking point. The Pasadena-based church pastor that brought the lawsuit said he will continue to fight the state’s ban on religious singing.
10:13 a.m: California counties turning to zip codes for vaccine outreach
California and other states are trying to ensure they vaccinate people in mostly Black, Latino and working-class communities since they have usually borne the brunt of the coronavirus pandemic.
According to the Associated Press, San Francisco is reserving some vaccines for older adults in the two zip codes hit hardest by the pandemic. Riverside County in Southern California has partnered with an immigrant advocacy group to vaccinate farmworkers.
Nationwide, states are struggling to distribute vaccines equitably even as officials try to define what equity means. Officials are debating what risk factors gets someone towards the front of the line: those in poverty, communities of color, the work they do, or if they have a disability.
10:12 a.m.: Los Angeles County lost nearly half a million jobs in 2020, will lose more in 2021
A report says Los Angeles County lost 437,000 jobs in 2020 and will have 354,000 fewer living-wage jobs this year compared to the pre-pandemic economy, according to the Associated Press.
The recently released report also outlined that more than 738,000 living-wage jobs will need to be created for the entire workforce in a county of 10 million residents to achieve a satisfactory standard of living. The county Department of Workforce Development, Aging and Community Services commissioned the report.
County Board of Supervisors chairwoman Hilda Solis plans to ask the board to pass a motion to implement many of the report’s recommended recovery strategies.
10:08 a.m.: WHO team confirms COVID-19 did not leak from Chinese lab
A team of international and Chinese scientists looking for the origins of COVID-19 says it's most likely that the coronavirus first appeared in humans after jumping from an animal.
According to the Associated Press , the team also confirmed that the alternate theory that the virus leaked from a Chinese lab was unlikely. This lab leak theory was the one former President Donald Trump and his administration officials had put forward without evidence. The Wuhan Institute of Virology is home to many different viral samples, leading to the allegation that it must have been the outbreak's source, whether accidentally or on purpose.
One expert said a closely watched visit by the World Health Organization team to Wuhan, China, didn't dramatically change the current understanding of the pandemic's early days but did offer more details. The mission was intended to be a first step in understanding the origins of the virus. Scientists have posited the virus passed to humans through a wild animal like a pangolin or a bamboo rat.
The pandemic has now killed more than 2.3 million people worldwide.
Monday, February 8
5:40 p.m.: San Joaquin County creates vaccine information site
San Joaquin County residents can now sign up to be notified of available COVID-19 vaccine appointments in the county.
Residents can enter their email address or text-enabled phone number on the county's website here and be alerted when doses are available for their tier. The state is now vaccinating health care workers, people in long-term care facilities, education and childcare workers, emergency services workers, food and agriculture workers, and all people 65 and older.
People without an email address or text-enabled phone can use an email address of a  caregiver, a family member or a friend.
5:38 p.m.: Natomas Unified School District opens COVID-19 vaccination clinic
The Natomas Unified School District will start administering COVID-19 shots to the surrounding community Thursday, Feb. 11.
The vaccination site will follow the state’s tier system for priority groups, meaning people 65 and older, and first responders. Vaccine-eligible people can register online or call (916) 561-5253 on Mondays from 8 to 11 a.m. for assistance. Help will be available in also Spanish, Punjabi, Hindu, Tagalog and Urdu. People calling the phone number may need to leave a message and be contacted later by staff.
Vaccinations will be at the Natomas High School parking lot at 3301 Fong Ranch Road as a drive-through shot site. Appointments are required, and walk-ups will not be admitted. The clinic  will continue on Thursdays moving forward.
5:25 p.m.: Nevada reports nearly 1,000 more COVID-19 deaths
On Saturday, Nevada reported 898 additional known COVID-19 cases and 33 additional deaths.
According to the Associated Press, this increases the state’s pandemic totals to 283,391 cases and 4,496 deaths. The seven-day rolling averages of daily new cases and daily deaths in the state decreased over the past two weeks, as reported by data from the COVID Tracking Project.
The rolling average of daily new cases dropped from 1,451.7 on Jan. 22 to 887.7 on Friday, with the rolling average of daily deaths dropping from 37.1 to 35 during the same period. The number of infections in Nevada is thought to be far higher.
1:44 p.m.: First Sacramento-region case of UK COVID-19 variant confirmed in Yolo County
The Sacramento region's first case of the U.K. variant of the coronavirus has been discovered in Yolo County.
UC Davis identified the case of the B.1.1.7 COVID-19 variant, the strain originally identified in the U.K. The variant was found through the university’s free testing program, Health Davis Together.
“Given that the B.1.1.7 variant has already been found in Southern California and the Bay Area, it is not surprising that it has now been detected in Yolo County,” Yolo County Public Health Officer Dr. Aimee Sisson said in a  press release.
Sisson said this infection is a reminder that even though cases may be declining in Yolo County, residents should still continue to wear masks, social distance and avoid indoor gatherings.
The person who tested positive for the variant has already been notified and is in isolation. Contract tracing efforts were started immediately. The unnamed person is an adult and may have caught the mutation through travel outside of their community.
The B.1.1.7 variant was originally identified in September 2020 and has been detected in 33 states, including California, Florida, Nevada, New York and Texas. Researchers from UC San Diego have hypothesized that this particular strain has been spreading rapidly in the U.S. since late November.
11:44 a.m.: Some California churches already open for indoor worship
Some California churches opened their doors to worshippers soon after the state revised its guidelines for places of prayer, according to the Associated Press.
The reopening follows the Supreme Court ruling Friday that lifted a ban on indoor services during the coronavirus pandemic . Gov. Gavin Newsom's office issued revised guidelines that limit indoor service attendance in areas with widespread or substantial virus spread.
In the most significant legal victory against California's COVID-19 health orders, the high court said the state couldn't continue a ban on indoor services, but it can limit attendance to 25% of the building's capacity and restrict singing inside.
11:42 a.m.: Which COVID-19 test will I need for international travel? Depends on your destination.
AP Illustration/Peter Hamlin
Many countries are stepping up COVID-19-related requirements for incoming travelers. Some plan to ask travelers to show a recent negative COVID-19 test, according to the Associated Press .
The U.S. will accept results from either a standard COVID-19 test or a rapid test, but the tests must have been taken no more than three days before flying into the country. The more sensitive nasal swab can take a day or more to get results, while the rapid tests can get a turnaround time of about 15 to 30 minutes.
Regardless of which test, the U.S. requires electronic or printed proof of the negative result from a medical laboratory — so even though results can be acquired quickly, travelers will likely need to see a health care provider to get proper documentation.
England also will accept either test, but their health authorities require that the tests meet a certain standard for accuracy. European Union officials recently agreed to standardized testing requirements for entry across all 27-nation bloc.
9:25 a.m.: Farmworkers may be overlooked in vaccination drive
In California, older adults, teachers, first responders, and farmworkers are all eligible for the COVID-19 vaccine right now, but with a limited supply of doses, counties have to choose who to prioritize .
Many counties are setting up clinics for older adults, advising them to check in with their doctors about setting up a coronavirus vaccine appointment. However, farmworkers across the state may not even know they are eligible for the vaccine or have a way to access it.
This lack of communication can lead to lower vaccination rates among farmworkers. According to a Stanford University report, even though farmworkers can get a free flu shot at any pharmacy, less than 5% do. But when people go onsite to where the farmworkers are to administer the vaccine, 80 to 85% receive their flu shot.
The Stanford team wants to go onsite to administer COVID-19 shots, but they can’t get their hands on the doses needed. Right now, the state has about 3 million on hand, but there are roughly 11.5 million people currently eligible.
While counties make their own decisions about administering the vaccine supply they get from the state, once older adults and frontline workers are vaccinated, the rollout should go by age group.
Sunday, February 7
California’s coronavirus picture remains much improved, but officials expressed concern that Super Bowl gatherings could erase gains made over the past several weeks.
The California Department of Public Health urged residents not to gather for the big game.
The number of people in the hospital with COVID-19 slipped below 11,670 statewide, a drop of nearly 35% in two weeks. The 15,064 new confirmed cases on Sunday represent a drop of more than 30% from the mid-December peak.
Deaths also are starting to fall but remain alarmingly high, however, with a daily average of 511 over the past two weeks. There were 295 deaths reported Sunday.
—Associated Press
