By Evan Webeck | ewebeck@bayareanewsgroup.com | Bay Area News Group
PUBLISHED:
February 24, 2021 at 8:12 a.m.
| UPDATED:
February 24, 2021 at 3:03 p.m.
After weeks of consistent improvement, cases of COVID-19 in the U.S. rebounded slightly to begin this week. In California, however, the decline in cases has continued unabated.
On Tuesday, county health departments across California combined to report 6,247 new cases of COVID-19, according to data compiled by this news organization . While that doesn’t quite match the state’s recent hundred-day lows , it did lower California’s daily average to about 5,815 cases per day over the past week, its lowest point since the first week of November and 87% below its peak last month.
Nationwide the past two days, the country has reported small week-over-week increases in cases, according to data collected by the New York Times. Cases have still declined about 74% from an all-time high last month and 37% in the past two weeks, to an average of about 68,000 per day, but for the first time since mid-January, the nation’s recovery from its winter wave appears to have at least briefly stalled. California recorded a 52% decline in cases over the past two weeks, outpacing the nation as well as its own previous two-week period.
Throughout the winter, California consistently topped the list of states with the worst current per-capita infection rates. As the nation’s most populous state, it already has recorded more overall cases and fatalities than any other state. Now, though, California’s per-capita rate over the past week ranks below 30 other states, at just under 15 daily cases per 100,000 residents.
The Bay Area has also cut its cases in half over the past two weeks, and on Tuesday, two of its counties were among the first to move out of the most restrictive purple reopening tier. San Mateo and Marin counties got the good news , along with Yolo, Humboldt and Shasta counties. San Francisco, Santa Clara and Napa counties also met the threshold, which requires an adjusted case rate of 7 or lower per 100,000 residents, but must do so for another week to earn the less restrictive guidelines.
Adjusted case rates, positivity rates in Bay Area counties, as of Tuesday:
Alameda: 9.5, 3.2%
