Californians wait for their coronavirus vaccinations (Image: GETTY)
The US is pushing to vaccinate people as fast as possible (Image: GETTY)
He told Science magazine: “The biology of having a higher level of virus would certainly fit the thesis that people would not do as well.
“We are seeing here in Southern California more people for a longer period of time in our ICUs."
Speaking last month after the California strain was first identified by Dr Chiu and his team, Dr Anthony Fauci, President Joe Biden’s Chief Medical Adviser, told NBC’s Meet the Press: "When you have a variant that is really very, very different, in the sense that it's more contagious, it tells you to do two things.
“One, double down on the public health measures we've been talking about all the time.”
Coronavirus vaccination rates compared (Image: Express)
He echoed the advice of President Biden, who has urged Americans to wear a mask for the first 100 days and possibly more, to maintain social distancing and avoid large crowds.”
He added: “But also, another important thing: the easiest way to evade this negative effect of these new isolates is to, when the vaccine becomes available, people should get vaccinated.
“If there was ever a clarion call for people to put aside vaccine hesitancy, if we can get the overwhelming majority of the population vaccinated, we’d be in very good shape.”
Speaking earlier this month about the efforts to study emerging COVID-19 variants, a Biden administration official told CNN: "We are not where we want to be in terms of genetic sequencing, although we are ramping up.
Cars wait in line outside a vaccination centre in California (Image: GETTY)
Coronavirus cases worldwide (Image: GETTY)
Trending
"We are starting way behind on genetic sequencing."
US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Director Dr Rochelle Walensky said the UK variant was responsible for an estimated one to four percent of cases in the US.
She said: "We do not believe the variants are distributed equally across the country at this time.”
Dr Walensky did not provide estimates in relation to the California, South Africa or Brazil strains.
Related articles
