These vaccines teach us a lesson about the future of our country. They show us how we can beat the pandemic. They show us the way ahead.
These vaccines teach us a lesson about the future of our country.
They show us how we can beat the pandemic.
They show us the way ahead.
See More
Video Transcript
Hi folks, I wanna take this chance to talk to you about the covid nineteen vaccination program the needles going into our arms day by the hundreds of thousands saving lives protecting the people We love and finally offering real hope after the tragedy of the last year after the unbearable loss of more than 100000 lives and we mourn everyone. these remarkable medicines are giving us a realistic way. To restart our businesses, our lives and these miracle vaccines also contain a lesson about our future as a country about jobs and growth and skills and how we're gonna learn from this appalling pandemic and build back better. There are all kinds of people. I want to thank from the bottom of my heart. I want to pay a special tribute to all the staff of our amazing NH doing the Lions share of the work and also our armed forces. Local authorities staff pharmacists volunteers all powering this remarkable roll out. There's also another group without whom none of this would be possible and that is the scientists because today, human genius and ingenuity are beating covid in a way that I find both moving and astonishing if you'd said to me a year ago that we would find a British vaccine for covid as soon as this. Frankly, I wouldn't have believed you and yet within a year of the emergence of this dreadful disease, we have Oxford and beyond tech and more on the way. How did it happen? The government set up the vaccine Task force we invested in the research, including multiple trials to test for safety. We constructed British vaccine making facilities. We made sure we were ready to give rapid approvals and we ensure the UK would strongly support that effort globally, especially. In the developing world, the government made big bets on all the most likely looking vaccines those that would be most effective and safe, but we knew the government could not hope to succeed alone. We depend for these life-saving drugs on the private sector on the instincts and know how of wealth creators people who are willing to invest money to take risks on new ideas and without that willingly. To take risk, we won't see the innovation we need to be covid and so many other diseases and that in a nutshell is the formula for our country's prosperity in the years to come a strong and active government investing massively in science and technology coupled with a dynamic enterprise economy. That's how we will create jobs, not just in bio sciences, but in technology of all kinds of this. Green technology and we'll do so across the whole of the UK across England, Wales, Scotland and Northern Ireland. These vaccines show us how we can beat the pandemic. They show the importance of UK science and technology in the jobs of the future. They show us the way ahead.
Conservatives Videos These vaccines teach us a lesson about the future of our country. They show us how we can beat the pandemic. They show us the way ahead.
