COVID-19 - City News and Community Updates
COVID-19 - City News and Community Updates
City officials are working closely with partners at the state and federal levels, as well as our partners here in Norwalk, to monitor and respond to COVID-19, the 2019 novel Coronavirus. Mayor Rilling is providing daily Norwalk-area specific updates. Please click here to read his latest update.
For testing information, click here . For vaccine information, click here .
Mayor Rilling has formed a COVID-19 Vaccination Task Force. More details are coming soon. Members of the public with questions, concerns, or comments can email COVID19TaskForce@norwalkct.org .
As Connecticut continues taking steps to protect residents from the spread of COVID-19, the state is currently in Phase 2.1 of its reopening plans. Members of the public with concerns or who wish to report an issue or non-compliance with the guidelines are asked to call the Norwalk Police Department non-emergency line at (203) 854-3000.
Community Support and Volunteer Opportunities
If you are interested in volunteering, we can help connect you with a local organization. Please click here to complete the survey.
If you represent an organization that is providing items or programs, needs donations, or volunteers, please click here to complete the survey.
To view a list of Community Based Organizations offering assistance please click here .
Norwalk Health Department updates can be found here .
For medical advice, contact a health care provider or call the Nuvance Health COVID-19 Community Hotline at (888) 667-9262.
Statewide updates can be found here .
Business Resources
For the most up-to-date information and resources for businesses, including FAQs for outdoor dining and outdoor retail, please visit norwalkct.org/COVID19BusinessResources .
Last Updated: February 22, 2021 at 9:00 a.m.
Norwalk City Hall
Open by Appointment Only
To make an appointment at City Hall, visit norwalkct.org/appointments . The Tax Collector walk-up window outside City Hall is currently closed. The Customer Service walk-up window inside City Hall is open weekdays 8:30 a.m. - 4:30 p.m. No appointment is necessary to use these windows.
Norwalk Public Schools
Visit norwalkps.org for the latest news from Norwalk Public Schools.
Norwalk Public Libraries
Open by Appointment Only
Get eBooks, audiobooks, magazines, newspapers online. Sidewalk Service is ongoing Monday - Saturday. 45-minute appointments are available to use computers, scan, or fax. Click here for the latest updates from the Norwalk Public Library or to schedule an appointment.
Norwalk Police Department
Fingerprinting by appointment only. Call 203-854-3000 for more details.
Norwalk Fire Department
The Fire Marshal’s office has adjusted hours. Call 203-854-0200 for more details.
Norwalk Senior Center
Click here for the latest updates from the Norwalk Senior Center.
Norwalk Transit District
Click here for the latest updates from the Norwalk Transit District
Norwalk Parks and Beaches
Adjusted
Veteran's Park is closed until further notice. All other parks and beaches are open under strict guidelines. There is currently no paid parking enforcement. Playgrounds are open everywhere. A walk-up window inside City Hall is available Monday-Friday 9 a.m. - 1 p.m. for those who need assistance with a Parks Parking pass. Email recreation@norwalkct.org with any questions.
Curbside Garbage/Recycling
Call 203-854-3200 or email customerservice@norwalkct.org
Norwalk Transfer Station
Regular Hours
Monday – Friday 7:30 a.m. – 3 p.m. and Saturday 7:30 a.m. - 2 p.m. Disposal Pass is required.
Norwalk Yard Waste Site
Regular Hours
Open to both residential and commercial users Monday – Friday 7:30 a.m. – 3 p.m. Closed Saturdays until April 10. Scale closed Mon-Fri 12 p.m. - 12:30 p.m. Disposal Pass is required.
Yard Waste Collection
2021 Spring Yard Waste Collection resumes in April 2021. Check back for more details.
Bulky Waste Collection
Collection resumes in March. Call 203-854-3200 for a pick. Visit norwalkct.org for more details.
Public Meetings (virtual)
Public meetings are now occurring via the Zoom online platform. More details here .
Parking Fees
Visit norwalkpark.org for more details.
Boat Launch at Veteran’s Park
Adjusted Hours
Please email vetsmarina@norwalkct.org for more information.
Community Updates
Mayor Rilling is providing daily Norwalk-area specific updates. Please click here to read his latest update.
Mayor Rilling is also using the CodeRED Emergency Alert message to provide updates to residents. This service is opt-in for cell phone users, meaning members of the public have to sign up if they wish to receive these messages. To sign up, or to update contact information, please click here .
To read a transcript of the latest message or listen to the call in English or Spanish, please click here .
Community Resources
Residents can find essential services in the area by calling 2-1-1- or clicking here. Residents may also call Norwalk Customer Service at (203) 854-3200 or email customerservice@norwalkct.org with city-specific questions.
The City of Norwalk has partnered with ABCD, Inc. and local food organizations and pantries to launch a COVID-19 Food Delivery Program for Norwalk residents. This program is free to individuals or families who are isolated or quarantined due to coronavirus and unable to leave their homes. Call (475) 489-9119 to schedule a delivery Monday-Friday from 8:30 a.m. - 4:30 p.m. Please click here for a listing of Norwalk organizations that offer food pantry and/or meal services, including meal sites for Norwalk children.
Person-2-Person is also offering assistance, has volunteer opportunities and donation needs. Click here for more information and how you can help.
Click here to discover Norwalk restaurants providing take-out and delivery services. Members of the public can also support local businesses by purchasing gift cards. Find out more here .
Many area social service agencies and nonprofits have adjusted their services, hours, and protocols. Please contact these organizations directly for more information or any restrictions.
TOIVO has resources on staying digitally connected during these difficult times. Click here for more information.
GrantSpace has comprehensive list of links to financial assistance/ programs and grants for nonprofits, residents, artists and small businesses. Click here for more information.
Social Distancing may cause or exacerbate mental health issues. The Hub CT has resources available for the public.
The Senior Center is concerned about older adult residents and social isolation and community disconnect. Seniors can leave a message at 203-847-3115 (ENGLISH) or 203-299-1500 (EN ESPAÑOL) and a staff member will return their call.
Senior Warm Lines: Operated by the Senior Services Coordinating Council. Check-ins with a friendly voice or willing ear to those in need of a connection, resource or emotional support. Must call to participate 203-434-3085 or 203-434-1876. Monday-Friday between 9AM - 5PM.
The Statewide Young Adult Warmline operated by Join Rise Be is a phone-based peer support line. Young adults can reach a peer at 1-855-6-HOPENOW seven days a week from noon to 9 p.m.
Parents and caretakers in need of help with the stress and increased needs resulting from caring for their children during the COVID-19 crisis are invited to call the state’s new “Talk It Out” hotline to receive assistance. Parents and caretakers are invited to call 1-833-258-5011 or visit talkitoutct.com .
The State of Connecticut has guidance available for homeowners and renters during the COVID-19 pandemic. Click here for more information.
The State of Connecticut has launched a Joint Information Center (JIC) as part of a coordinated effort to provide information on developments related to coronavirus. The JIC can be contacted 24 hours a day, 7 days a week by calling 860-754-8342 or emailing COVID19.JIC@ct.gov .
The information on this page is the most up-to-date and supersedes information that may be found elsewhere on norwalkct.org .
