Videos, posters and infographics to share
Producing a vaccine
Producing a vaccine is complex. It requires significant investments to ensure it can be produced on a large scale with good quality and consistency. Our investments in research will help make sure Canada has faster access to safe and effective vaccines.
Manufacturers manage the process for vaccine production.
Both private and large public investments from governments around the world are being put toward research and development of COVID-19 vaccines.
This partnership between private industry and the public can lead to more affordable and ground-breaking health products for Canada.
Securing enough vaccine
On December 9, 2020, we authorized the first vaccine in Canada for the prevention of COVID-19. Find out about COVID-19 vaccines that are authorized in Canada .
We're working to make sure everyone in Canada has access to these vaccines as quickly as possible. This includes working with provinces and territories, as they're responsible for planning and running vaccination programs. The advance purchase agreements we've signed will help us reach this goal.
We're investing in a large selection of vaccines and working hard to make sure vaccine doses are available as quickly as possible after authorization. But it will take time before there's enough vaccine for everyone in Canada. This is why we identified priority populations for the first doses of the vaccines with the:
provinces and territories and
National Advisory Committee on Immunization
The Government of Canada will also provide additional support for:
securing storage facilities
getting supplies (like needles, swabs and gauze)
helping with distribution across the country
Vaccination for COVID-19
COVID-19 vaccines approved for use in Canada are free. They're available to priority populations first. They'll then be available to everyone in Canada who is recommended to get the vaccine by federal, provincial and territorial public health authorities.
This applies to:
everyone in Canada, including those who aren't citizens and who are over the:
age of 16 for the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine
age of 18 for the Moderna vaccine
age of 18 for the AstraZeneca vaccine
diplomatic staff and their dependants
Canadian Armed Forces personnel that are on active duty abroad
Vaccination is one of the most effective ways to:
prevent the spread
reduce the impact of infectious diseases
protect us against COVID-19
Groups that will get the vaccine first
Stage 1
Stage 1 priority for early  COVID-19 vaccination should be offered to groups who are:
at higher risk of severe outcomes of COVID-19
most likely to transmit to  those at higher risk for severe illness or death
These groups include:
residents and staff of shared living       settings who provide care for seniors
adults 70 years of age and older, with       order of priority:
beginning with adults 80 years  of age and older
decreasing the age limit by  5-year increments to age 70 as supply becomes available
frontline health care workers who have       direct contact with patients, including:
personal support workers
adults in Indigenous communities
Stage 2
When enough COVID-19 vaccines  and supplies become available to stage 1 groups, stage 2 should offer  vaccinations to:
adults  in or from Indigenous communities not included in stage 1, including those who  live in urban settings
residents and staff of all other shared       living settings, such as:
shelters
