Every testing site and experience will be somewhat different, but there will be staff and signs on site to help you.
Before you visit a testing location, confirm the following:
If the centre is open and what the hours are.
How to book an appointment for testing.
If there's a drive-thru option.
If they will test young children or babies.
If any information about your condition is needed (pre-screening).
Some testing centres may have outdoor waiting areas. Dress appropriately for weather conditions.
Bring your Ontario health (OHIP) card with you. You can still get tested if you do not have a health card. It's a free service.
Access more information on COVID-19 testing from the Ontario government .
Getting to the testing location
When travelling to the testing location, travel alone if you can, to avoid possibly exposing others to COVID-19.
If you must be a passenger in a vehicle, wear a mask and sit in the back seat with the windows down.
Do not use public transportation, taxis, or ride share services. If you need to take a taxi or ride share, make sure your nose and mouth are always covered, and wear a non-medical mask.
About the test
Most testing locations use a long, flexible swab to collect a sample through your nose.
The swab is:
rotated around for 5 to 10 seconds
sometimes put into the other nostril
Most swabs go deep to rub against the inner side of the nose. It may feel like when you get water up your nose. It's temporarily uncomfortable, but not painful. You may feel some discomfort for a little while after.
What to do after getting tested
Most people will need to self-isolate while they wait for their test results. Do not assume that no test result means a negative test, as it may take approximately 7 days to receive results.
In Peel, self-isolation is a requirement under the Class Order issued by the Medical Officer of Health under Section 22 of the Health Protection and Promotion Act. Find out what the Class Order on self-isolation means for you.
Stay at home
Stay home while you wait for your test results. You may need to self-isolate from others while you're waiting for results to avoid spreading the virus.
Even if you don’t have symptoms, those you live with should also stay home until you receive your test results. Household members should arrange to get tested as soon as possible if you or anyone else in the home develops symptoms.
Learn what to do if you can’t safely self-isolate at home from the people you live with.
Answer the call
Peel Public Health will call anyone who tests positive for COVID-19 to provide instructions.
Protect those at home
If you develop symptoms or had symptoms when you got tested, distance from those you live with by self-isolating.
If possible, stay in your own room, do not share bathrooms, wear a mask, physically distance and wash your hands often.
Learn more about how to properly self-isolate .
Check your test results
You may be able to check your test results online. Be patient, as it can take approximately 7 days to receive your COVID-19 test results.
Follow the directions given to you at the testing location.
Learn how to get your test results and what they mean .
Follow next steps
Many people will need to continue self-isolating for a specific period of time after getting their test results, before it's safe to go back to work, school or other activities.
If you were exposed to someone with COVID-19, you may need to get tested again, depending on when you were first tested. Refer to the full instructions for close contacts .
People who are self-isolating can access supports and services to help with daily necessities, such as food delivery and supports for seniors. Also learn about financial support that may be available to you.
Translated resources
Testing for international travellers and health care workers
Testing for international travellers
You can no longer get a free test for international travel. Private COVID-19 tests are available throughout Ontario. International travellers are recommended to consult their travel carrier's guidelines to ensure they have the most up-to-date information and should refer to the Government of Canada's travel website for requirements related to their destination.
At  Toronto Pearson International Airport, a mandatory COVID-19 test is required upon arrival for all international  travellers. Learn  more about the mandatory testing program and what travellers need to do.
Testing for health care workers
All health care workers who have symptoms or are tested for COVID-19 should self-isolate and contact their occupational health department for further instructions. If you're a health care worker or work in a health care facility, refer to health care workers for information on testing and self-isolation.
When to go to the emergency department
If you have any severe symptoms, such as difficulty breathing, chest pain or feeling faint, call 911 or go to the emergency department.
Inform health care workers or 911 if you have any symptoms of COVID-19 or have had close contact with a person who has COVID-19. If possible, wear a mask to limit exposure to others.
