Mail
People travelling to Australia from New Zealand face increased restrictions from today after the discovery of new coronavirus cases in Auckland.
The quarantine-free travel bubble between New Zealand and Queensland, Victoria and New South Wales has had restrictions imposed on it previously as outbreaks emerge and new cases are being traced.
Overnight, the three states reclassified Auckland as a hotspot and anyone arriving from today will no longer be free to skip quarantine. Instead they will be required to spend two weeks in hotel isolation and some may even decide to fly straight back, health officials said.
READ MORE: New Zealand records new local COVID-19 case
A pop-up testing station was set up at Papatoetoe High School following the announcement of cases linked to the school. (ABIGAIL DOUGHERTY/STUFF)
Three new cases of community transmission linked to an Auckland high school emerged on Wednesday, with New Zealand authorities urgently tracing contacts in the hope of preventing a larger outbreak.
Victoria halts free movement from Auckland
Victoria's Department of Health said overnight that any flights from Auckland from will be regarded as "red zone" arrivals from this morning.
Anyone on those planes will be forced to enter hotel quarantine for 14 days.
Anyone who arrived in Melbourne from Auckland on Tuesday is being asked to get a COVID-19 test immediately and quarantine until they receive a negative result.
"The Department of Health is in the process of contacting impacted travellers and will provide them with advice about where to get tested."
NSW classifies Auckland a hotspot
NSW Health earlier issued an alert for anyone who had arrived from New Zealand since Saturday on quarantine-free flights.
READ MORE: Robots are the latest members of Victoria's hotel quarantine team
The department is checking if travellers have been to any new venues of concern attended by an infectious person in Auckland.
Anyone who have arrived since Saturday is being asked to get tested and isolate until they get a negative result, or for 14 days if they attended one of the venues.
Jacinda Ardern. (Getty)
A notice is now in effect specifying Auckland as a hotspot.
This requires people arriving in NSW from New Zealand who have been in Auckland, including the airport, to enter hotel quarantine for 14 days.
Alternatively, they may choose to depart Australia.
The hotspot identification begins today.
"NSW Health continues to monitor the situation and will adjust these requirements as new information emerges," the department said in a statement.
Queensland closes border to NZ
Queensland has declared all of New Zealand a hotspot and anyone arriving from 6pm on Wednesday is required to complete hotel quarantine.
"Unfortunately, over the past few days New Zealand has been recording some new positive cases, which is why we are closing the border from 6pm," Chief Health Officer Dr Jeannette Young said.
Click or tap on the banner to find out how to download the 9News app for breaking and localised news alerts. (9News)
"Anyone who is permitted to travel to Queensland from New Zealand will be required to quarantine on arrival.
"Acting with an abundance of caution has kept Queenslanders safe and that's exactly the path we will continue to take."
Anyone who arrived since February 21 must get tested and isolate
Continue reading
