A Halifax Transit bus (Meghan Groff/HalifaxToday.ca)
UPDATE: Public Health has issued a correction to dates and times listed in the following release.
NEWS RELEASE
COVID-19/HEALTH/WELLNESS
Nova Scotia Health Public Health is advising of potential exposure to COVID-19 at one location in Western Zone, four locations in Central Zone and various Halifax Transit routes. In addition to media releases, all potential exposure notifications are listed here: http://www.nshealth.ca/covid-
exposures .
Anyone who worked at or visited the following locations on the specified dates and times should immediately visit covid-self-assessment.
novascotia.ca/ to book a COVID-19 test, regardless of whether or not they have COVID-19 symptoms. You can also call 811 if you don’t have online access or if you have other symptoms that concern you.
Regardless of whether or not you have COVID-19 symptoms, those present at the following location on the named date and time are required to self-isolate while waiting for their test result. If you get a negative result, you do not need to keep self-isolating. If you get a positive result, you will be contacted by Public Health about what to do next.
*CORRECTED DATE* Callister’s Country Kitchen (7076 Highway 1 Coldbrook) on Feb. 14 between 3:30 p.m. and 7 p.m. It is anticipated that anyone exposed to the virus at this location on the named date may develop symptoms up to, and including, February 28.
Hop Scotch Dinner Club (1537 Barrington St, Halifax) on Feb. 19 between 6:30 p.m. and 10 p.m. It is anticipated that anyone exposed to the virus at this location on the named date may develop symptoms up to, and including, March 5.
For the following locations, if you have symptoms of COVID-19 you are required to self-isolate while you wait for your test result. If you do not have any symptoms of COVID-19 you do not need to self-isolate while you wait for your test result.
*CORRECTED TIME* Bishop’s Cellar (1477 Lower Water St, Halifax) on Feb. 19 between 9 p.m. and 10:30 p.m. It is anticipated that anyone exposed to the virus at this location on the named date may develop symptoms up to, and including, March 5.
Sobeys Timberlea (65 Market Way Ln, Timberlea) on Feb. 21 between 12 p.m. and 3 p.m. It is anticipated that anyone exposed to the virus at this location on the named date may develop symptoms up to, and including, March 7.
Superstore Sackville (745 Sackville Dr, Lower Sackville) on Feb. 21 between 3 p.m. and 4:30 p.m. It is anticipated that anyone exposed to the virus at this location on the named date may develop symptoms up to, and including, March 7.
Various Halifax Transit bus routes:
Route 159 Portland Hills from Portland to Scotia Square on Feb. 18 between 5:30 p.m. between 6:30 p.m. It is anticipated that anyone exposed to the virus on the named date may develop symptoms up to, and including, March 4.
Route 61 Auburn/North Preston from Portland to Scotia Square on Feb. 18 between 5:30 p.m. between 6:30 p.m. It is anticipated that anyone exposed to the virus on the named date may develop symptoms up to, and including, March 4.
Route 14 Leiblin Park from Scotia Square to Mumford on Feb. 18 between 5:30 p.m. between 6:30 p.m. It is anticipated that anyone exposed to the virus on the named date may develop symptoms up to, and including, March 4.
Route 1 Spring Garden from Mumford to Scotia Square on Feb. 19 between 2 p.m. and 3 p.m. It is anticipated that anyone exposed to the virus on the named date may develop symptoms up to, and including, March 5.
Route 159 Portland Hills from Scotia Square to Portland on Feb. 19 between 2:30 p.m. and 3:30 p.m. It is anticipated that anyone exposed to the virus on the named date may develop symptoms up to, and including, March 5.
Route 61 Auburn/North Preston from Portland to Scotia Square on Feb. 20 between 1:30 p.m. and 3:30 p.m. It is anticipated that anyone exposed to the virus on the named date may develop symptoms up to, and including, March 6.
Route 14 Leiblin Park from Scotia Square to Mumford on Feb. 20 between 1:30 p.m. and 3:30 p.m. It is anticipated that anyone exposed to the virus on the named date may develop symptoms up to, and including, March 6.
Please remember:
Do not go directly to a COVID-19 assessment centre without being directed to do so. Please book an appointment online and do not go to a pop-up rapid testing location.
Currently, anyone who traveled outside Nova Scotia or PEI is expected to self-isolate alone for 14 days after arriving. If a person returning from non-essential travel outside Nova Scotia or PEI is unable to isolate alone, then everyone in the home where they are self-isolating will have to self-isolate as well.
When Nova Scotia Health Public Health makes a public notification it is not in any way a reflection on the behaviour or activities of those named in the notification.
All Nova Scotians are advised to continue monitoring for COVID-19 symptoms and are urged to follow Public Health guidelines on how to access care. Up to date information about COVID-19 is available at novascotia.ca/coronavirus
