If I’m breastfeeding, can I still get the vaccine?
10 Myths About the COVID-19 Vaccine That Aren't True
The FDA-approved COVID-19 vaccines are both safe and effective. We talk with an infectious disease expert and debunk the rumors.
Learn More
COVID-19 Vaccines: Important Facts
We chatted with Dr. Dennis Cunningham, Dr. Allison Weinmann, and Dr. Mariam Alaka about COVID-19 vaccines, separating the science from myths and the latest on distribution.
play
When can I get the COVID-19 vaccine?
Because initial vaccine supplies are limited, frontline healthcare workers were prioritized by federal and state agencies to receive the vaccine first, followed by the most vulnerable patients. This includes those at skilled nursing facilities, with certain high-risk health conditions and over age 65. Healthy adults under 65 who don’t work in healthcare or qualify as essential workers should have access to the vaccine in the coming weeks as supply increases.
Michigan has opened eligibility to anyone 65 years old and older, plus a larger group of essential workers and first responders, including staff and teachers in K-12 education, childcare providers, police officers, jail and correctional facility workers, agricultural and food processing workers, and more.
I meet the eligibility requirements and am a Henry Ford patient. How can I get the vaccine?
We are making appointments available as soon as possible, and are prioritizing patients age 65 and older and certain high-risk patients. If you are an established Henry Ford patient who meets these eligibility criteria, we will contact you by text, email or phone as appointments become available for scheduling.
You cannot schedule a COVID-19 vaccine appointment through your regular Henry Ford doctor or our contact center.
If you are a Henry Ford patient and do not have an existing MyChart account, we encourage you to sign up for an account to streamline the scheduling and notification process.
We appreciate your patience during this unprecedented vaccine roll-out.
Why did Henry Ford change the process to schedule a COVID-19 vaccine?
We know the process has been frustrating for many of our eligible patients and the community members to schedule a COVID-19 vaccine and we thank you for your patience.
Our nation has never experienced a vaccine effort like this and in such a short period of time.
As we move through the coming months, we are expecting to receive enough vaccine for everyone who wants it. But in the near future we must first vaccinate those persons most vulnerable to this virus. For this reason, we recently updated our COVID-19 vaccine scheduling process.
When you become eligible to receive a vaccine, and we have adequate vaccine supplies and appointment slots, we will contact you through your Henry Ford MyChart, a text message or by telephone, based on the contact information you have provided us in your medical record. You cannot schedule a COVID-19 vaccine appointment through your Henry Ford doctor or our Contact Center.
Will teachers, frontline essential workers, and others who are eligible now be contacted to receive the vaccine?
Unfortunately, Henry Ford does not have employment information available for this purpose. K-12 teachers, frontline essential workers, and others who are eligible to receive the vaccine due to their occupation will not be contacted by Henry Ford for an appointment based on their occupation. Patients are contacted when they become eligible due to their age or a health condition.
For current eligibility in Michigan visit, http://Michigan.gov/COVIDVaccine . If you are eligible based on your occupation and have not been contacted by the health system, Henry Ford encourages you to seek other options where you can receive the vaccine sooner.
How can I get a Henry Ford MyChart account?
If you are a Henry Ford patient and do not have a Henry Ford MyChart account, we encourage you to sign up for an account.
A Henry Ford MyChart account makes it easier for us to contact you and for you to schedule an appointment when it is your time to get the vaccine.
What do I need to know before my vaccine appointment? Do I need to prepare?
Here are a few things to keep in mind before you get your vaccine:
The vaccine is given with a needle in the upper arm, so wear clothing that allows your upper arm to be easily exposed, like a short-sleeve or sleeveless shirt.
Eat your normal meal or a snack (depending on the time of day) and drink plenty of liquids before coming for your vaccine.
For maximum immunity, the Pfizer and Moderna COVID-19 vaccines require two doses. At your appointment for the first dose, you will need to make the appointment to receive your second dose at the same location in 3 weeks if you receive Pfizer) or 4 weeks if you received Moderna. So, you may want to bring your calendar with you or check your availability beforehand, so you are able to find a convenient time within the recommended time frame. Keeping this follow-up appointment is very important. (If you receive the Johnson & Johnson vaccine, just one dose is required.)
Allergic reactions are possible with any vaccine, though they are rare. For your safety, you will be asked to remain in a designated waiting area for about 15 minutes for monitoring. If you’ve had a prior allergic reaction to an injectable medicine or vaccine, or any of the ingredients in  the vaccine you’re getting, you may be asked to wait 30 minutes. The waiting area will be socially distanced.
Mask wearing is required, and strict safety protocols are in place at all facilities providing the vaccine.v
You may experience side effects after getting the vaccine, but don’t take acetaminophen (Tylenol) or other pain relievers before your appointment. It may lessen the effect of vaccine. If you experience side effects after the vaccine, it’s recommended to take Tylenol, if needed, then.
Learn more: Getting the COVID-19 Vaccine? Here’s How To Prepare
How will my vaccination be documented?
Your electronic medical record will be updated with all the details each time you receive a dose of the vaccine, including which vaccine you received and when.
You will also be given a vaccination card at the time of your first dose. Please keep this card with you when you return for your second dose. You should also keep it for your own records.
Can I get more than one kind of vaccine, or choose which one I get?
There is no need to be vaccinated with another vaccine if you have received one. You can’t choose which one you get, but you will be told which vaccine you are receiving when you are vaccinated.
The best vaccine is the one you can get the soonest. It’s just important that you get vaccinated.
Mixing vaccines is not recommended. If your first dose was the Pfizer vaccine, your second dose should also be the Pfizer vaccine. If your first dose was the Moderna vaccine, your second dose should be the same. (The Johnson & Johnson vaccine only requires one dose.)
At this time, Henry Ford has received supplies of both the Pfizer and Moderna vaccines, and a very limited quantity of the Johnson & Johnson vaccine, and is administering them to employees and patients. If you receive a vaccine, the type of vaccine you were given is documented and your second dose, if needed, will be that same vaccine.
How do the COVID-19 vaccines compare?
If I participated in a clinical trial for the vaccine, am I eligible to receive early vaccination?
Henry Ford is a site for the Moderna and Johnson & Johnson vaccine trials. The clinical trial team will communicate with all participants directly to help them make an informed decision about next steps.
If you are participating in either vaccine trial and have questions or concerns, please contact the research team.
Johnson & Johnson: JandJVaccine@hfhs.org
Questions about your individual decision to get the vaccine should be addressed with your primary care physician.
What’s happening with COVID-19 vaccines right now?
Three companies, Pfizer, Moderna and Johnson & Johnson, have received emergency use authorization for their COVID-19 vaccines from the Federal Drug Administration (FDA). Distribution of these approved vaccines is underway.
Since the first supply of vaccines will be limited, health systems like ours need to plan how to store and distribute the vaccines we receive. We’ve been carefully developing plans that follow the guidelines from the FDA , Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) and state agencies .
What is the COVID-19 vaccine, and how will it be given?
Pfizer and Moderna are messenger RNA (mRNA) vaccines, which cause the body to make a viral “spike protein” that activates the immune system to fight off the coronavirus by mimicking the infection. Recipients need to receive two shots spaced several weeks apart for full protection.
The Johnson & Johnson vaccine is a viral vector vaccine, which is given as a one-time shot. It uses a harmless version of a virus to deliver important instructions to our cells. For this vaccine, a virus – not the COVID-19 virus, but a different virus – enters a cell in the body and then activates the “spike protein.” This tells our immune system to begin making antibodies and activating other immune cells to fight off what it thinks is an infection.
You cannot get sick with COVID-19 from any of the vaccines. mRNA and viral vector vaccines do not contain live virus and cannot cause COVID-19. Side effects of the vaccines are a natural part of the process and show that the vaccine is working. At the end of the vaccination process, our bodies are trained to protect us against the virus that causes COVID-19.
How did vaccines get approved so quickly?
Production of the COVID-19 vaccines began sooner than is typical. Normally, production starts after a pharmaceutical company completes the development stage for a vaccine, which includes rigorous testing for safety and effectiveness. Every vaccine goes through a series of reviews and approvals by the FDA and the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices (ACIP), among others. In the case of COVID-19 vaccines, the federal government invested taxpayer dollars to encourage pharmaceutical companies to start production before the development stage completed.
The vaccines are still going through the same rigorous testing, review and approval process to establish safety and effectiveness.
Learn more: How Were The COVID-19 Vaccines Made So Quickly?
Why is the vaccination process taking so long?
This is the largest vaccination effort of its kind that has ever been undertaken, and it differs in many key respects from what people are used to when getting the flu vaccine, for example.
Henry Ford alone is expected to deliver more than a million individual doses of this two-dose vaccine, which means making more than 2 million vaccination appointments over the next several months. By comparison, this is more than 50% of the 3.7 million outpatient visits Henry Ford patients make across our system in an entire year.
It is also a uniquely complex, community-wide vaccination campaign that requires an unprecedented level of partnership and collaboration, especially as initial supplies remain low. We are working closely with our local, state and other partners, and following CDC and state guidelines, to roll out vaccinations to patients and members. Many of our local county leaders are also rolling out robust plans to vaccinate vulnerable patients. Additionally, there are several retail organizations that are tasked in this collaborative effort as well.
Does the vaccine mean that other safety measures and restrictions can be relaxed?
Vaccines are one important piece of the puzzle in combating this pandemic and will eventually help life return to normal.  It will take many months before a large portion of the population is able to be vaccinated.
In the meantime, reducing the cases of COVID-19 needs to continue to be our priority. Efforts like wearing masks, social distancing, avoiding large gatherings and practicing hand hygiene remain essential to reduce the spread.
We don’t know yet whether you can still be a carrier of COVID-19 and transmit it to someone else, unknowingly, after being vaccinated. So, please continue to wear masks, wash hands frequently, socially distance and avoid large gatherings even after you have been vaccinated.
Is one type of vaccine better than the other?
Be assured that all of the approved vaccines are safe and highly effective. The best vaccine is the vaccine you can get as soon as possible.
It is difficult to compare the vaccines, because the clinical trials were done with different measurements and different ways of collecting data. Through V-safe, an app that everyone who is vaccinated can use to report symptoms, researchers will be able to look at all the data and compare the results accurately in the coming months.
Pfizer and Moderna have 95% and 94.1% effective rates, respectively, and Johnson & Johnson is 72% effective at preventing moderate to severe illness and 86% effective at preventing severe illness.
Do not hesitate to take the Johnson & Johnson vaccine because clinical trials have shown it is not as effective in preventing infection as the Pfizer and Moderna vaccines. The Johnson & Johnson vaccine is highly effective and will protect you from severe illness and death. It is a very important tool to help end the pandemic.
Pfizer and Moderna require two shots, spaced a few weeks apart. Johnson & Johnson is a single-shot vaccine. All may produce some side effects, like arm soreness, fatigue or headache, but are usually mild to moderate and last about 24-48 hours.
You should accept whichever vaccine your vaccination site is offering—you can’t choose which vaccine you receive. In the end, it doesn’t matter which one you get, it’s just important that you get vaccinated.
Will the vaccine allow me to travel internationally without getting a COVID-19 test?
At this time, people who have been vaccinated are not exempt from this requirement. Even if you have received the vaccine, you are required to provide a negative COVID-19 test, or documentation of recovery from COVID-19, to re-enter the U.S. If you are planning to travel to a foreign country, be sure to check that nation’s requirements . Visit the CDC web site for details or read the President's Executive Order .
Can we be sure the vaccine will be safe? Will it be safe for me?
We understand that there may be concern over the safety and effectiveness of a COVID-19 vaccine. We have closely examined the FDA’s process for overseeing the many different vaccine trials. The FDA is required to make decisions that are guided by science and data regarding authorization or approval of COVID-19 vaccines. We have confidence in the FDA’s approval process and are committed to safety, quality and high reliability.
You cannot develop COVID-19 from any of the vaccines available.
Does the vaccine cause a severe allergic reaction?
Any vaccine or medication has the potential to cause a severe allergic reaction.
The FDA currently recommends that you avoid the vaccine if you have had prior severe allergic reactions to other vaccines, and avoid getting the Pfizer, Moderna or Johnson & Johnson vaccine if you have had a previous allergic reaction to the ingredients of that particular vaccine.
