Coronavirus Emergency Relief Fund (CERF)
Coronavirus Emergency Relief Fund (CERF)
The City of Aurora's Coronavirus Emergency Relief Fund (CERF) is a direct response to the economic injuries sustained by local businesses including but not limited to eating and drinking establishments caused by the COVID-19 pandemic, and the resulting social-distancing measures.  This program allows the City to offer grants to reimburse a portion of business losses suffered as a direct result of the public health crisis, and assist as they adjust to the resulting business demands.
The total available funding for the Direct Cash to Business Relief Fund is $1,200,000.  Payments to qualified businesses will be distributed as a one-time grant.  Grant amounts will vary and are intended to be paid within the range of $2,000 to $15,000, proportional to the amount of documented losses, and depending on the number of applications received.
WHO QUALIFIES?
All small businesses in the City of Aurora are eligible to apply with exceptions listed below.  Only complete applications received by the deadline will be processed.  Applications can be emailed to [email protected] , or dropped off at the City of Aurora Development Services Center (77 S. Broadway) Monday to Friday 8am to 5pm before close of business March 3, 2021.
Ineligible businesses include:
• A government-owned business entity;
• A business that is delinquent on payment of any State of Illinois tax obligation;
• A business that is engaged in a business that is unlawful under Illinois or federal law;
• A business that is on the federal System for Award Management excluded parties list;
• National, corporate-owned franchises are ineligible. Locally-owned, corporate franchises are able to apply.
• A business that has permanently closed.
• A business that employs more than 50 employees.
• Financial institutions.
• Home-based businesses, home-occupation businesses, professional or medical businesses
• Non-profit entities, which are NOT subject to the tax levied under Article VII of Chapter 44 [Food and Beverage Tax]
The City reserves the right to deny or grant any application at any time.
QUALIFYING EXPENSES
The major qualifying expense used to determine the grant amount is “cost of business interruption,” defined as the decrease in revenue (not additional expenses) caused by closing or limiting access to the business establishment to comply with COVID-19 prevention directives or to otherwise prevent the spread of COVID-19 within the business establishment, or decreases in revenue caused by decreased customer demand as a result of the COVID-19 emergency.
• Restaurants are asked to demonstrate losses by contrasting revenues to the same seven-month period in 2019 to 2020. This is to be documented through the current Food and Beverage payment history on file with the Finance Department and if necessary by submitting the monthly ST-1 Sales and Use Tax forms for each month from March to September in 2019, and March to September 2020.
• If this is not possible or for new restaurants without 2019 sales history, the City will evaluate the data that is available to determine the amount of relief to be provided.
• In no case will an award be made of greater value than documented or estimated (by the City) losses for that period.
• A business's compliance with the COVID 19 directives from the IDPH and the applicable local Departments of Health will also be taken into consideration.
• The City will use its best efforts to reach a fair conclusion based on these estimates
GRANT ADMINISTRATION
All applications for grants will be accepted on a first-come first-serve basis.  Only completed applications that include all required submittal documents and information will be accepted.
A review committee including but not limited to staff from the City's Mayor’s Office of Economic Development Department and Finance Department will review each application for accuracy and will determine if it meets the requirements for funding.  CFO and staff will provide periodic updates to Council and will provide a final list of recipients.
The following structure is proposed; however, this is subject to change once applications are received due to actual percentages that are shown and CERF funding available.
BUSINESSES WITH MORE THAN $1.0 MILLION IN SALES*
Cost of Business Interruption comparison between
March to September 2019 and 2020
Maximum Grant Award Available to each Business
Business that experienced a 10% to 15% loss
$2,000
16% to 25% percent loss
$5,000
26% to 60% percent loss
$10,000
BUSINESSES WITH LESS THAN $1.0 MILLION IN SALES*
Cost of Business Interruption comparison between
March to September 2019 and 2020
Maximum Grant Award Available to each Business
Business that experienced a 10% to 15% loss
$1,500
16% to 25% percent loss
$3,500
26% to 60% percent loss
$7,500
FAQs
What is CERF?
CERT is an acronym that stands for the City of Aurora Coronavirus Emergency Relief Fund.  The COVID-19 pandemic and the resulting mitigation efforts have negatively impacted a number of business sectors throughout the City of Aurora. The purpose of CERF is to provide additional financial assistance from the City of Aurora during this ongoing pandemic.
What is the Direct Cash to Business Relief program?
A one-time grant from the City of Aurora to local small businesses except those that are listed as being ineligible (see list below).  Grant amounts will vary and are intended to be paid within the range of $2,000 to $15,000, proportional to the amount of documented losses, and depending on the number of applications received.
How do I apply?
All applications for grants will be accepted on a first-come first-serve basis.  The first round of applications are due by email to [email protected] rora-il.org or by dropping off a hard-copy at the City of Aurora Development Services Center (77 S. Broadway) Monday to Friday 8am to 5pm by close of business March 3, 2021.  Only completed applications that include all required submittal documents and information will be accepted.  A review committee will review each application for accuracy and will determine if it meets the requirements for funding.
Who Qualifies?
All small businesses in the City of Aurora are eligible to apply with exceptions listed below.
Ineligible businesses include:
A government-owned business entity;
A business that is delinquent on payment of any State of Illinois tax obligation;
A business that is engaged in a business that is unlawful under Illinois or federal law;
A business that is on the federal System for Award Management excluded parties list;
National, corporate-owned franchises are ineligible.
A business that has permanently closed.
A business that employs more than 50 employees.
Financial institutions.
Home-based businesses, home-occupation businesses, professional or medical businesses
Non-profit entities, which are NOT subject to the tax levied under Article VII of Chapter 44 (Food and Beverage Tax)
What must I include in the application?
The application must include all of the following items:
Completed application including narrative of impacts felt from the COVID19 event substantiating request for grant funds.
If necessary, due to the lack of Food and Beverage tax data, monthly ST-1 Sales and Use Tax forms for the City of Aurora-based business, for each month from March to September in 2019, and March to September 2020.
Copy of driver’s license or valid government ID of the business owner.
Businesses must register on the City’s website (at no cost) at https://www.aurora-il.org/2217/Business-Registration to be eligible.
What are Qualifying Expenses?
The major qualifying expense used to determine the grant amount is “cost of business interruption.”
How do I demonstrate cost of business interruption?
Restaurants are asked to demonstrate losses by contrasting revenues to the same seven-month period in 2019 to 2020. This is to be documented through the current Food and Beverage payment history on file with the Finance Department and if necessary, by submitting the monthly ST-1 Sales and Use Tax forms for each month from March to September in 2019, and March to September 2020.
If this is not possible or for new restaurants without 2019 sales history, the City will evaluate the data that is available to determine the amount of relief to be provided.
A business's compliance with the COVID 19 directives from the IDPH and the applicable local Departments of Health will also be taken into consideration.
What is the Grant Amount available to each business?
Payments to qualified businesses will be distributed as a one-time grant.  Grant amounts will vary and are intended to be paid within the range of $2,000 to $15,000, proportional to the amount of documented losses, and depending on the number of applications received.
THE APPLICATION DEADLINE IS MARCH 3, 2021 at 5 P.M.
Completed applications must be received by the City of Aurora by either:
Downloading the application and emailing a copy to [email protected] ;
Downloading the application and hand delivering a hard copy to the City of Aurora Development Services Center, 77 S. Broadway, between 8am and 5pm Monday to Friday
Completing an application online.
