Have an existing Telemedicine appointment? Click here to check in.
If you simply want to learn more about accessing Telemedicine for future
	 appointments, click here .
National Spine and Pain Centers COVID-19 UPDATE
National Spine & Pain Centers Affiliates are carefully monitoring the
	 rapidly evolving COVID-19 crisis. The safety and well-being of our patients,
	 staff, and community is our top priority.
National Spine & Pain Centers affiliates will continue to provide daily
	 updates as the situation changes.
To protect our patients and care teams, non-urgent office visits are being
		 conducted through Telemedicine
TreatingPain.com/Telemedicine
During this challenging time, we continue to offer patients access to the
	 same quality care they have come to expect, in a convenient and safe fashion.
	 Specifically, our affiliated practices are taking the following precautions
	 to not only help ensure the safety of both patients and staff, but also
	 to provide greater peace of mind.
Enhanced Patient Screening: Patients who are showing signs of illness are asked to refrain from entering
		 our offices and follow all CDC guidelines. Patients with even low-grade
		 fevers are being asked to avoid visiting our offices.
Employee Screening: Employees are screened daily for signs of fever or respiratory distress,
		 and are required to stay home if they show any signs of illness.
Expanded Personal Protective Equipment: Employees wear company-issued gloves and masks throughout the workday.
		 Hand sanitizer is readily available and its use is encouraged for both
		 employees and patients.
Increased Frequency Cleaning: Each office has supercharged its already strict adherence to hygiene protocols
		 – including more frequent cleaning of waiting areas, front desk
		 areas, bathrooms, and non-patient areas throughout the day with products
		 that the EPA lists for effective use against COVID-19.
Social Distancing: The number of chairs in each waiting room has been reduced, and the distance
		 between each chair has been increased. We also recommend that minors and
		 disabled patients be limited to 1 adult companion.
Reducing High-touch Surfaces: You are encouraged to bring your own reading materials, as most of reading
		 materials have been removed from waiting areas and exams rooms.
Ongoing Updates: Leadership and managers are communicating regularly to relay policy changes,
		 provide updates on changes to state and federal requirements, monitor
		 supplies and address staffing needs.
Thank you for your continued commitment to the health, well-being, and
	 safety of our community. As circumstances continue to change, we will
	 keep you informed.
Symptoms of COVID-19
If you are experiencing fever, fatigue, cough, shortness of breath, body
	 aches, and/or inability to smell and have an existing in-office appointment
	 with our affiliated providers, please call to reschedule your in-person
	 appointment to a telemedicine appointment.
Monitor your symptoms and contact your primary care physician for further
	 evaluation, or report an emergent care center.
Contact with others who may have COVID-19
How to prevent spreading or catching COVID-19
We encourage you and your loved ones to continue to take these simple,
	 protective steps:
Wash your hands with soap for at least 20 seconds. Be sure to wash between
		 your fingers and scrub your nails, too – germs can linger beneath
		 the nail bed.
Stay 6 feet away from others while in public
Wear a mask when in public
Avoid touching your face – especially your eyes, nose and mouth.
Cough into your elbow or use a tissue to prevent the spread of the virus.
Avoid unnecessary travel
Measure your temperature when possible with non-touch thermometers if available.
		 Consider immediate isolation if low-grade fever identified; Consider ER
		 visit if symptoms are more severe (ex. respiratory involvement)
Additional COVID-19 Updates:
Here’s the latest from the CDC: https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/cases-in-us.html
World Health Organization: https://www.who.int/emergencies/diseases/novel-coronavirus-2019
