Vaccine ‘breaks link’ between virus and hospital says Van-Tam
Sign up for FREE now for the biggest moments from morning TV
SUBSCRIBE
Invalid email
When you subscribe we will use the information you provide to send you these newsletters.
Sometimes they'll include recommendations for other related newsletters or services we offer.
Our Privacy Notice explains more about how we use your data, and your rights.
You can unsubscribe at any time.
Jonathan Van-Tam told ITV's Good Morning Britain that those that refuse to take the coronavirus vaccine risk ending up in the hospital. England's Deputy Medical Officer added that it is the responsibility of NHS staff to get vaccinated to protect their patients.
Related articles
Piers Morgan erupts: 'The world's gone nuts to appease wokeys' - VIDEO
Professor Van-Tam said: "We are just being constantly surprised, people are very accepting and they get it.
"One thing this vaccine appears to do from the latest data is that it breaks the link from you getting it and ending up in the hospital."
Professor Van-Tam also stated that the world will face "recurrent problems" as a result of COVID-19 as the virus is learning how to "get a grip" in humans.
He outlined that over time the coronavirus will adapt to humans and cited the new Covid variants as an example of this already taking place.
Jonathan Van-Tam is England's Deputy Chief Medical officer (Image: GMB)
Coronavirus: The number of vaccines administered in different countries (Image: EXPRESS)
England's Deputy Chief Medical Officer added that the virus will settle into a pattern similar to seasonal flu, meaning the UK will experience recurrent winter problems.
Professor Van-Tam said: "I have always framed COVID-19 as a virus that is newly emergent in humans, that over time will adapt to humans.
"I think that is what we are seeing through these variants, it is learning how to get a grip in humankind.
"We have fought back with the vaccines but I think it is going to settle at the end, a bit like seasonal flu.
Van-Tam warns coronavirus will have 'recurrent winter problems'
"We are going to have recurrent winter problems with coronavirus.
"We are going to need to deploy vaccines periodically to help protect the population but they will not be a total solution."
England's Deputy Chief Medical Officer was praised on social media for the manner of his interview.
One Twitter user said: "JVT was excellent and answered the question put.
DON'T MISS
