COVID-19 Vaccine Tracker for Minnesota
Find out more about how the coronavirus vaccination is being distributed in Minnesota below.
Feb 15th 2021 - 10am.
The COVID-19 vaccination is being distributed in phases, based on criteria determined by individual states. Find information and resources about the vaccination process in Minnesota below.
Minnesota
Click the banners below for up-to-date vaccination info for Minnesota and localities.
Minnesota is currently in the 1A phase of vaccine distribution. Find more information about vaccination phases and the Minnesota vaccine rollout here .
Additional vaccine phases, resources
Frequently Asked Questions
Q: How will I know when I can get a COVID-19 vaccination shot?
A: CHI St. Joseph's Health advises people to check the COVID-19 section of their website www.CHISJH.org or Facebook page daily for any new clinics and to register when they are posted. Registration links are removed as soon as each clinic is filled. For those without internet access, and who meet eligibility criteria, call Community Health at 218-237-5464.
If you are currently a Sanford Health patient, you will receive a My Sanford Chart message, a letter and a call or text message when we are ready to set up your vaccine appointment.
Essentia Health is following state department of health guidelines in administering the COVID-19 vaccine. The most efficient way to get notified and scheduled for the vaccine is through MyChart.
Q: Where are vaccine shots being given?
A: Sanford Health Clinic in Park Rapids: www.sanfordhealth.org/conditions-diseases/coronavirus-disease-2019-covid-19/vaccine
CHI St. Joseph's Health: chisjh.org/coronavirus/vaccine-clinic-information
Essentia Health Park Rapids: www.essentiahealth.org/covid-19/covid-19-vaccine-information
Q. Where can I learn more about the COVID-19 vaccine, distribution and safety?
A: Visit the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention's comprehensive website for more answers to frequent questions.
Q. How do our states compare to others when it comes to vaccine distribution?
A: The best way to know this from day to day is using the CDC's Covid Data Tracker site.
Related Topics
