
Liberty Through Wealth
SPONSORED

Palm Beach Millionaire Is Giving Away His Top Income Secrets... FREE OF CHARGE.

Millionaire Sticker
 
CLICK HERE

 
THE SHORTEST WAY TO A RICH LIFE
When Animal Spirits Meet "Irrational Exuberance"
Alexander Green | Chief Investment Strategist | The Oxford Club
Alexander Green
A new Bank of America report reveals that investors have poured more money into global equity funds in the last five months than they did during the prior 12 years combined.

They are optimistic about the economy.

Ask them why and they'll tell you that the pandemic is receding, the economy is reopening, and Uncle Sam is stoking the recovery - and financial markets - with ultra-low interest rates and trillions in new spending.

Everyone knows this.

The rub, as legendary investor Bernard Baruch observed, is what everyone knows isn't worth knowing.

You gain an edge in the market by recognizing what other investors don't see, not what they do.

Many folks today take the favorable economic outlook - which I've commented on here myself - as a reason to get fully invested... after the market has climbed 90% over the last 13 months.

That's the kind of return the S&P 500 generally generates over a decade, however, not a year.

Yet the momentum is drawing people off the sidelines and into the game.

A recent survey from the American Association of Individual Investors shows that 57% of investors have a bullish outlook for the stock market over the next six months.

They may well be right.

Everything from factory orders to jobs reports to retail sales indicates that we may see 8%-plus growth in the economy this year.

That wouldn't just be exceptional. It would be the best performance since the 1950s.

Unfortunately, there is no short-term correlation between economic growth and stock market performance.

If that sounds surprising, consider how stocks performed over the last year, despite shelter-in-place orders, business lockdowns and the biggest spike in unemployment since the Great Depression.

The stock market is a forward-looking indicator.

In the depths of last year's bear market, smart investors realized that we would pull out of that power dive... and began bidding stocks higher.

Now they look ahead and see a barn burner of a recovery. And - again - they may be right.

 
SPONSORED

SHOCKING: $100 Billion Surging Into the 5G Market

Closeup $100 Bills
 
What do Verizon, AT&T, T-Mobile, Dish Network, Charter Communications and Comcast have in common?

According to Barron's, they're all participating in "secret bidding" to secure as much as $100 billion worth of 5G spectrum.

The big winner in all of this frenzied spending? This little-known tech stock, which trades for less than $20 a share.

Get the scoop here...

 
As I try to make clear in these columns, it simply isn't possible to accurately and consistently forecast annual GDP growth or the short-term twists and turns in the market.

You should know, however, that extreme market sentiment is a contrarian indicator.

In the late '90s, for instance, investors correctly realized that the internet would change everything.

But that didn't mean everything e-commerce-related was worth buying.

Internet stocks carried absurd valuations. Others couldn't even be practically valued.

Without dividends, earnings, sales or much tangible book value, they traded on nonsense metrics like "eyeballs" and "web hits."

From March 2000 to October 2002, the Nasdaq plunged 78%. The leading index of internet stocks plummeted 95%.

I see the same kind of mania today in cryptocurrencies.

Yes, digital currencies and the blockchain are real innovations that we'll build on for years to come.

But that doesn't mean Dogecoin - a cryptocurrency created as a joke - should be worth $50 billion, as it was last week, more than Ford Motor Company (NYSE: F) or Marriott International (Nasdaq: MAR).

Alan Greenspan should have waited until now to talk about "irrational exuberance."

We saw another type of extreme market sentiment in March of last year. Abject pessimism was combined with extremely low valuations.

From there, equities skyrocketed.

Now, of course, the situation has reversed.

Instead of scared investors and low valuations, we have euphoric investors and rich valuations.

How do you handle this scenario?

Long-term investors and short-term traders should take two distinctly different approaches, in my view.

I will detail both in Monday's column.

Good investing,

Alex

Leave a Comment
 
Smart Path to Financial Freedom
Click here to watch Alex's latest video update.

 
For Alex's latest video updates, subscribe on YouTube.
 
JOIN THE CONVERSATION
Facebook
Facebook
Twitter
Twitter
Email Share
Email Share
 
MORE FROM LIBERTY THROUGH WEALTH
New Swing Trade Recommendation
 
 
 
Why It's Not Too Late to Invest in Cannabis
 
 
 
The Real Threat to Cryptocurrencies
 
SPONSORED

2021: The Year of Stockflation?

$11.2 TRILLION is about to unleash the biggest force to ever hit the market...

But three new initial public offerings could reap the fastest gains...

Get the Details Here

 
The Oxford Club
 
You are receiving this email because you subscribed to Liberty Through Wealth.
Liberty Through Wealth is published by The Oxford Club.
Questions? Check out our FAQs. Trying to reach us? Contact us here.

Please do not reply to this email as it goes to an unmonitored inbox.

Privacy Policy | Whitelist Liberty Through Wealth | Unsubscribe

© 2021 The Oxford Club, LLC All Rights Reserved
The Oxford Club | 105 West Monument Street | Baltimore, MD 21201
North America: 1.800.589.3430 | International: +1.443.353.4334 | Fax: 1.410.329.1923
Oxfordclub.com

 
 
The Oxford Club is a financial publisher that does not offer any personal financial advice or advocate the purchase or sale of any security or investment for any specific individual. Members should be aware that although our track record is highly rated by an independent analysis and has been legally reviewed, investment markets have inherent risks and there can be no guarantee of future profits. The stated returns may also include option trades.

We expressly forbid our writers from having a financial interest in their own securities recommendations to readers. All of our employees and agents must wait 24 hours after online publication or 72 hours after the mailing of printed-only publications prior to following an initial recommendation. Any investments recommended by The Oxford Club should be made only after consulting with your investment advisor and only after reviewing the prospectus or financial statements of the company.

Protected by copyright laws of the United States and international treaties. The information found on this website may only be used pursuant to the membership or subscription agreement and any reproduction, copying, or redistribution (electronic or otherwise, including on the world wide web), in whole or in part, is strictly prohibited without the express written permission of The Oxford Club, 105 W. Monument Street, Baltimore MD 21201.