
GeniusRx | Weekly Wellness
Issue 12:

Hypothyroidism vs. Hyperthyroidism
Welcome to Weekly Wellness, by GeniusRx. Issue 12: Hypothyroidism vs. Hyperthyroidism
Welcome to this week’s issue of Weekly Wellness, by GeniusRx.
Each week, we provide you with tips and advice on how to live your healthiest life.


Hypothyroidism? Hyperthyroidism? It's not just a mouthful to say. Prefixes such as hyper- and hypo- can also be very confusing, and that's the last thing you need as you work through your symptoms. Both are thyroid conditions, but each one has a separate set of symptoms.

Today we will explain the differences of each illness and the best treatment for you.

Illustration of the thyroid
First of all, what is a thyroid?
Your thyroid is a gland located in the front of your neck, surrounding your windpipe. Its shape is a bit like a butterfly, but despite its appearance, it's pretty powerful. This gland helps control your metabolism, and when your metabolism is out of whack, it can present a host of issues that affect your whole body.

In general, thyroid disease occurs when your thyroid cannot make the correct amount of hormones for your body. Thyroid disease can present itself as a variety of illnesses, the most common ones being hypothyroidism and hyperthyroidism.1

Infographic: 1 in 20 people in the United States are diagnosed with Hypothyroidism after the age of 12. Hyperthyroidism is less common, with an incidence rate of 1 in 100.
Data courtesy of Everyday Health 2
So, what's the difference between hypothyroidism and hyperthyroidism?
Despite similar names, the impact on the body is quite different.

Let's start with hypothyroidism.

What is Hypothyroidism?
Hypothyroidism, also known as an "underactive thyroid," occurs when the thyroid doesn't produce enough essential hormones. Initially, you may not notice any symptoms, but over time symptoms will appear, and it can cause many physical ailments if left untreated. Your doctor can test you to determine if a lack of hormones causes your symptoms.3

Illustration of various Hypothyroid symptoms
Hypothyroidism Symptoms:
Infertility
Heavy or irregular periods
Unexplained weight gain
Cold intolerance
Elevated blood cholesterol level
Depression
Impaired memory
Goiter (lump at base of the throat) 4
Fatigue
Chronic hoarse voice
Dry skin
Constipation
Pale and/or puffy face
Joint pain
Muscle aches or weakness
Thinning hair or hair loss
What is Hyperthyroidism?
Hyperthyroidism, or "overactive thyroid," swings the body into overdrive due to an overproduction of hormones. This illness can become serious if left untreated, but most respond well to treatment. 5

Illustration of various Hyperthyroid symptoms
Hyperthyroidism Symptoms
Nervousness or anxiety
Irritability
Feeling hot and increased sweating
Increased heart rate or hand tremors
Difficulty sleeping
Skin thinning
Loose bowel movements
Fine, brittle hair
Muscle weakness
Unexplained weight loss
Lighter, less frequent menstration
Lack of energy and fatigue 6
Imagery of medications. There are many types of thyroid medications. Contact your doctor for more information.
How can I treat my thyroid condition?
After speaking with your doctor, they may refer you to an Endocrinologist who specializes in thyroid conditions. They will determine the best treatment depending on your illness. Both thyroid conditions have treatments to relieve symptoms; however, you should maintain close communication with your doctor and strict adherence to your prescription for best results.:

Levothyroxine
Levothyroxine
For hypothyroidism
More information >

Methimazole
Methimazole
For hyperthyroidism
More information >

There are many more ways to treat your condition, including diet and vitamin supplements. Your doctor can best determine what course of treatment is right

for you. 7

Person walking through a crosswalk happily. Her thyroid condition will not stop her!
Having a thyroid condition doesn't need to stop you in your tracks.
You can work with GeniusRx to receive FDA-approved medications that relieve help you with your thyroid condition, all with fast local delivery to your home. Your body will thank you.

Contact us today or visit our website for more information.

SHOP ALL MEDICATIONS
Data and information from: 
(1) Cleveland Clinic  (2) Everyday Health (3) Everyday Health (4) Mayo Clinic
(5) Healthline (6) Mayo Clinic (7) Mayo Clinic
Don't have a GeniusRx account?

Setting one up is fast and easy.

SIGN UP TODAY
We're always here for you.
Follow us on social.

Fb	Tw	In	Ig
GeniusRx
GeniusRx (MailMyPrescriptions) is a licensed and accredited US Pharmacy.

622 Banyan Trail, Ste 614 Boca Raton, FL 33431
 (800) 964-9654

Want to stop receiving emails from GeniusRx? Click here to unsubscribe